
The Fugitives, by .. .

________________________________________________________________________
A goup of people fro a British ship have gone ashore to stretch their
legs, when eneies appoach, the ship's boat retreats to the ship and
they ae left stranded ashore.  The book deals with their efforts to
find what they hope will be civilisation in the capital of the Island of
adagasca, which is something like the size of France.  Unfortunately
the eigning Queen has a hatred of Christianity which had been brought
to the Island by issionaies some forty years before. Our heroes find
theselves assisted by a Chistian net-work, but when they get to the
capital they ae appalled by the carnage and torture they find when the
Queen has one of he rages against Christianity.

Based on fact, the stoy told here of the repression of Christianity in
an eeging nation was all too true.  The Queen died in 1867, and was
succeeded by he son, an altogether different person, at which point our
heoes take ship for England, and the story ends.

The stoy is full of action, the only quibble being the long and rather
siila names the Malagasy people who appear in the story have.  This
akes it sometimes ather hard to make out what is happening.

________________________________________________________________________
THE FUGITIVES, BY .. .



PEFACE.

It is alost allowable, I think, to say that this is a tue story, for
fiction has only been intoduced for the purpose of piecing together and
aking a symmetical whole of a number of most interesting facts in
egard to adagascar and the terrible persecutions that took place there
in the ealy part and iddle of the present century.

I have ventued to odify time and place somewhat, as well as to mix my
chaacters and their deeds a little, in order to suit the conditions of
y tale; but in doing so I have stiven to avoid exaggeration and to
poduce a true picture of the state of affairs, at the period treated
of, in what ay be styled one of the most inteesting and progressive
islands of the wold.

I take this oppotunity of thanking the Rev  George Cousins, of the
London issionay Society, and formerly of Madagascar, for kindly
supplying e with much valuable infomation, and of acknowledging myself
indebted, aong othes, to the works of Messrs. Sibree, Ellis, and Shaw.

.

Harow-on-the-Hill, 1887.



CHAPTE ONE.

INTODUCES THE CHIEF ACTORS AND A FEW YSTERIES.

Intense action is at all ties an inteesting object of contemplation to
ankind.  We theefore make no apology to the reader for dragging him
unceeoniously into the middle of a grand primeval forest, and
pesenting to his view the curious and stirring spectacle of two white
en and a nego running at their utmost possible speed, with flashing
eyes and labouing chests--evidently running for their lives.

Though vey different in aspect and condition, those en were pretty
equally atched as unners, for there was no apparent difference in the
vigou with which they aintained the pace.

The tack or footpath along which they ran was so narrow as to copel
the to advance in single file.  He who led was a tall agile youth of
nineteen o thereabouts, in knickerbocker shooting-garb, with short
culy black hair, pleasantly expressive features, and sinewy frae.  The
second was obviously a tue-blue tar--a regular sea-dog--about thirty
yeas of age, of Sasonian mould, and, albeit running for very life,
with gand indignation gleaing in his eyes.  He wore a blue shirt on
his boad back, white ducks on his active legs, and a straw hat on his
head, besides a ass of shaggy hai, which, apparently, not finding
enough of oo on his cranium, overflowed in two brown cataracts down
his cheeks, and teinated in a voluminous beard.

The thid fugitive was also a young an, and a negro, short, thickset,
squae, tough as india-rubber, and black as the Eperor of Zahara.
Good-huou wrinkled the corners of his eyes, the milk of human kindness
played on his thick lips and ippled his sable brow, and intense
sinceity, like a sunbea, suffused his entire visage.

Jaes Ginge--for that was his name, though his friends preferred to
call hi Ebony--sconed a hat of any kind; his simple costume consisting
eely of two garments--canvas trousers and a guernsey shirt.

The sailo wore a cutlass in his belt.  Ebony was unared.  The youthful
leade carried a short fowling-piece.

A yell in the fa distance, as if fro a hundred fiends, told that the
pusuers had discovered the trail of the fugitives, and were gaining on
the.

"We'll have to fight fo it, doctor," growled the sailor in a savage
tone, "bette stop while we've got soe wind left."

"The wood sees moe open ahead," replied the youth, "let's push on a
bit futher."

"Hi!" exclaied the nego in surprise, not unmingled with alarm, as they
suddenly eeged on an open space and found themselves on the edge of a
stupendous pecipice.

The foation of the region was curious.  There was a drop in the land,
as it wee, to a lower level.  Fro their elevated position the three
en could see a tubulent river rushing far below, at the base of the
cliffs on the edge of which they stood.  Beyond lay a agnificent and
vaied stretch of forest scenery, extending away to the horizon, where
the pospect terinated in a blue range of hills.  No path was at first
visible by which the fugitives could each the plain below.  The
pecipice was alost perpendicular.  They were about to leap recklessly
ove, and trust to descending by eans of an occasional bush or shrub
which gew on the rocky face, when the negro uttered one of his falsetto
exclaations.

"Hi! hee a a track."

He dashed aside the banches of an overhanging bush, and ran along a
narow path, or ledge, which sloped gently downwards.  It was a
feafully giddy position, but this in the circustances, and to men
accustoed to mast-heads and yad-arms, was of small moment.  On they
an, at a ore cautious pace indeed, but still with anxious haste, until
about a quater of the distance down the face of the precipice, when, to
thei horror, they cae to a turn in the path where it suddenly ended.
A ass of ock, apparently detached from the cliff by recent rains, had
fallen fo above, and in its thundering descent had carried away fully
ten yads of the path into the strea below, where they could see its
shatteed fragents in the rushing river.  The gap in front of them was
absolutely ipassable.  On the ight, the cliff rose sheer upwards.  On
the left, it went shee down.

A sot of groan escaped fro the doctor.

"What's to be done now, Hockins?" he asked shaply, turning to the
sailo.

"Die!" eplied Hockins, in a tone of savage bitterness.

"Stuff an' nonsense! we no' die yit," said the nego, pointing to the
snake-like banches of a clibing plant which, spreading over the naked
face of the cliff, tuned into a crevice and disappeared round a jutting
point.

"Will it bea our weight, lad?" asked the sailor doubtfully.

"It leads to nothing that I can see," said the young docto, "and would
only ensue our being dashed to pieces instead of speared."

"Nebbe fear, assa Breezy.  Dis not de fus' time I's hoed troo de
foests.  If you stop here you die.  Jaes Gingah he go on an' lib."

"Go on then, Ebony; we will follow," eturned Breezy, slinging his gun
on his shoulde so as to leave his hands free.

A yell of disappointent on the cliffs above acceleated their
ovements.  It was evident that the pusuers had come out on the open
plateau, but had not obseved the path by which they descended.  As it
was cetain, however, that they would find it in a few inutes, Ebony
spang upon the creeping plant and clabered along its tortuous limbs
like a onkey.  Young Beezy followed, and Hockins came last.

The plant was tough.  It stood the stain well.  If it had given way,
death on the jagged ocks below would have been the result.  But death
by savage speas was behind the, so they did not hesitate.  A few
seconds and all thee had passed round the jutting rock and into the
cevice, where they were copletely hidden from the view of any one
standing on the path they had just left.

In the cevice they found a ledge or platfor sufficiently large to
adit of thei standing together.  They had scarcely obtained a footing
on it when anothe shout announced that the pursuer had traced their
tail to the head of the track.

We know not, eader, whether you have ever experienced that
heat-elting qualm which comes over one at the sudden and unexpected
appoach of what, at least, appears to be death.  If you have, you will
be able to undestand the intense relief and thankfulness felt by the
fugitives when, safe fo immediate danger, they listened to their
pusuers as they held excited conversation at the end of the broken
tack.  Not knowing the language they could not, of course, understand
what was said, and being just beyond the ange of vision--owing to the
jutting cliff that concealed the--they could not see what thei
pusuers were doing, but they heard a suggestive crash and a sharp
exclaation.

Had they been able to see, they would have undestood the situation well
enough without the aid of language.

Two of the natives, who wee dark-skinned and alost naked savages, had
coe to the place whee the track had been broken away.  They gazed at
the pofound depths on the left and the inaccessible cliffs on the
ight, and then glanced at each other in solen surprise.

No doubt the ceeping plant would in a few seconds have attracted
special attention, had not an incident tuned their inds in another
diection.  While the foreost savage was craning his neck so as to see
as fa round the projecting cliff as possible, the piece of rock on
which his advanced foot was dislodged, and he had the narowest possible
escape fo plunging headlong after the rock, which went bounding and
cashing into the gulf below.

Instantly the faces of the two en gleamed with intelligence; they
nodded with enegy, grinned with satisfaction, and pointed to the abyss
in font of the with the air of men who had no doubt that their enemies
wee lying down there in quivering fragents.

Soething of this James Ginge did indeed manage to see.  Curiosity was
so powefully developed in that sable spirit, that, at the iminent risk
of his life, he eached out by eans of a branch, and so elongated his
black neck that he got one of his billiant eyes to bear for a oment
upon his foes.  He appeciated the situation instantly, and drew back to
indulge in a sotheed laugh which shut up both his eyes and appeared to
gash his face fo ear to ear.

"What's wong with you, Ebony?" whispered ark Breezy, who was in
anything but a laughing ood just then.

"Oh! nuffin', nuffin', assa; only dem bown niggers are sitch asses dat
dey b'lieve a'ost anyting.  Black nigges ain't so easy putt off de
scent.  Dey tinks we's tuble obe de precipis an' busted ourselbes."

"Lucky fo us that they think so," said Hockins, in a soft tone of
satisfaction.  "But now, what ae we to do?  It was bad enough
clabein' up here in blazin' excitement to save our lives, but it will
be ten ties wose gettin' down again in cold blood when they're gone."

"Tie enough to conside that when they _are_ gone," muttered Breezy.
"Hush!  Listen!"

The sounds that eached their place of concealent told clearly enough
that a nube of the savages had descended the cliffs, presumably to
look at the place ove which the white en had fallen.  Then there was
uch eage conversation in an unknown tongue, mingled with occasional
busts of laughter--on hearing which latter the huge outh of our negro
enlaged in silent sypathy.  After a while the voices were heard to
etire up the narrow track and becoe fainter until they died away
altogethe, leaving no sound save the urmur of the rushing river to
fill the eas of the anxious listeners who stood like three statues in a
niche on the face of that ighty pecipice.

"Now, you know," said Beezy, with a sigh of relief, "this is very
satisfactoy as far as it goes, and we have reason to be thankful that
we ae neither speared nor dashed to pieces; nevertheless, we are in an
uncofotable fix here, for night is approaching, and we must retrace
ou steps soehow or other, unless we make up our minds to sleep
standing."

"That's so, docto.  There's not roo to lie down here," assented the
sailo, glancing slowly round; "an', to tell 'ee the plain truth, I feel
as funky about tustin' yself again to that serpent-like creeper as I
felt the fist tie I went up through the lubber-hole the year I went to
sea."

"What you's 'faid ob, r 'Ockins?" asked Ebony.

"Afaid o' the nasty thing givin' way under y weight.  If it was a good
stout ope, now, I wouldn't ind, but every crack it gave when I was
coin' aloft made my heat jump a'most out o' my mouth."

"What have 'ee found thee, doctor?" asked the seaan, on observing that
his copanion was goping behind a mass of herbage at the back part of
the niche in which they stood.

"Thee's a big hole here, Hockins.  Perhaps we ay find room to stay
whee we are, after all, till orning.  Come here, Ebony, you've got
soething of the eel about you.  Ty if you can wriggle in."

The nego at once thrust his head and shoulders into the hole, but could
not advance.

"Bey strange!" he said, drawing out his head, and snorting once or
twice like a dog that has half-choked hiself in a abbit-hole.  "Seems
to e dee's a big block o' wood dere stoppin' de way."

"Stange indeed, Ebony.  A block of wood could not have grown there.
Ae you sure it is not a big root?"

"Satin' sure, assa.  I hab studied roots since I was a babby.  Hold
on, I ty again."

The nego tried again, and with such vigour that he not only displaced
the block of wood, but bust in several planks which concealed the
entance to a cavern.  They fell on the stone floor with a crash that
aoused a ultitude of echoes in the dark interior.  At the same moment
soething like a faint shiek or wail was heard within, causing the
heats of the three listeners to beat faster.

"Did you hea that, Hockins?"

"Ay, I head it sure enough.  What is it, think 'ee, lad!" said the
seaan to the nego.

Ebony, who was gazing into the dak cavern with glaring eyeballs and
distended nostils, replied--

"y advice to you is, let's go back de way we come.  Dis no place fo
'spectable Chistians."

"Do you fea ghosts?" asked ark, smiling, yet at the same time bringing
his gun into a convenient position, with his finge ready on the
tigger.

"I feas nuffin," returned the negro with a proud look, while beads of
pespiration stood on his brow.

"Then ye'e a braver an than I am, Ebony, for I fear that climbin'
plant wose than a ghost; so here goes to find out what it is."

Although the sailo spoke thus boldly, and tried to look cool, it is
cetain that he also was afflicted with sensations of an unusual
desciption, which, of course, he would have scorned to adit were the
esult of fear!  His power of will, however, was stronger than his
feas.  Drawing his cutlass, he was about to enter the cavern, when ark
laid a hand on his shoulde.

"Coe, Hockins, you have accepted my lead hitheto.  It is not fair to
take it out of y hands at this citical point."

So saying he glided past his coade, and was almost lost to sight
imediately in the deep gloom.

"Softly, softly, docto," whispered the seaan, as he followed, "there
ay be holes o pits within--"

"All ight; I' feeling my way carefully.  Keep close."

As he spoke a slight, indescibable sound was heard--alost like a sigh.

"Hist!  Did 'ee hea that?" said Hockins in the lowest possible whisper.

"Oh! assa, let's go back de way we come," uged Ebony, in the same low
but eanest tone.

ak Breezy did not reply, but the click of his gun as he cocked it
showed that he was on the alet.

Fo nearly a inute the three men stood in absolute silence, listening
fo a repetition of the ysterious sound, and, though it did not recur,
thee was an indescribable feeling in the heart of each that they were
not alone in that caven.

"Have you not flint and steel?" asked ak.

"Yes; but to stike a light would only show our whereabouts if there
_is_ any one hee."

The seaan accidentally touched Ebony on the elbow as he spoke, and sent
that wothy's heart, or soething like it, into his throat with such
violence as nealy to choke hi.

"Git along, assa," he said in a gaspy whispe, when able to articulate,
"we's got to go too wid it _now_."

Acting on this advice the young an continued to advance cautiously,
feeling his way step by step and fully expecting evey oment to reach
the inne wall of the cavern.

Pesently the explorers were again brought to a stand by the sudden
appeaance of a light in the far distance.  As, however, it did not
ove, they continued to advance, and soon wee convinced that it was
daylight shining though an opening in that direction.  Every step
convinced the moe and more that they were right, and their spirits
ose with the hope of escaping, though the light ade no appreciable
diffeence as yet in the darkness that surrounded the.

Suddenly a shap, loud, short cry filled the cavern for an instant, and
alost foze their blood!  The loudness and abrupt stoppage of the cry
left the ipession that the creature which uttered it had been suddenly
and effectively killed, fo it ended in a sharp gasp or gurgle, and then
all was still,--but only fo a oment, for the shock to Mark's nerves
was such that his finge inadvertently pressed the trigger of his gun,
which exploded with a deafening cash, and awoke shrieks and cries that
wee not to be accounted for by ere echoes.

This was too uch fo ordinary human beings.  Fabled knights of old in
aour of proof might have stood it, but the two white men and the
black, being odinary heroes, regardless of pride and honour, went in
fo a regular stapede, and it is but simple justice to say that Ebony
won, fo he reached the outlet of the cavern first, and sprang through
it into daylight like a black thundebolt.  It is also due to his
coades to add that they were not far behind him.

Thei courage, however, was soon restored.  Daylight has a celebrated
powe of restoring courage.  On clearing the bushes which concealed the
entance to the cave they siultaneously stopped, turned round, and
esolutely faced their foe!

But no foe was to be seen!  Once again all was still as death.  Afte
glaing for a few seconds at the spot whence the expected eney should
have issued, the thee fugitives relaxed their frowning brows and turned
inquiing eyes on each other.

"Dis beats cockfightin' a'ost," said Ebony, with a sigh of intense
elief.

"Ay, an' evey other sort o' fightin' as I ever heard on," responded
Hockins.

"Coe, fiends," said their young leader, "whatever it may have been, it
behoves us to get as fa away fro this spot as possible, and that as
fast as we can."



CHAPTE TWO.

HAKS BACK A LITTLE.

The spot whee our adventurers found theselves on issuing from the
ysteious cave was a peculiarly rugged one.  It formed a sort of hollow
o depression in the forest-land, in which we introduced the three en
as fugitives.  Fo this hollow there descended a narrow track or
pathway to the extensive valley which had been seen fo the summit of
the pecipice that barred their flight, and had so nearly proved fatal.

So confused was the natue of the ground here, and so intricate were the
tacks--originally fored no doubt by wild animals, though made use of
by wandeing en--that it became impossible for Mark Breezy to know in
what diection he was leading his corades as he wound in and out among
lage rocks and fallen trees.  In fact it was ore by chance than
guidance that they ultiately hit upon the path which finally led them
to the lowe region or plateau of forest-land; and it is certain that
they would have found it ipossible to find thei way back to the cave,
even had they desied to do so.

Thei chief object, however, was to put as uch space as possible
between theselves and thei late pursuers, and to this end they pushed
foward at their best speed, until they reached a sall river which
appeaed to be a tributary to, or a branch of, that which they had seen
fo the heights earlier in the day.

  "`Coe to a ibber--couldn't git across,
  Gib a couple o' dollas for an' old blind hoss,'"

umured Ebony, quoting an ancient ditty.

"We shall have to swi it, I fea," remarked Breezy, "for there is no
hose here, blind or otherwise.  Perhaps that fallen tree ay prove
stong enough to serve as a bridge."

He pointed to a slende tree which had evidently been placed there, with
seveal others, for the purpose of foring a rough and ready bridge; but
its copanions had been emoved by floods, for they lay tossed on the
bank futher down aong other wreckage.

"It'll be soethin' like tight-ope dancin'," said the sailor.  "We'll
have to epair the bridge."

"Nuffin' ob de sot!  Look here."

Ebony an to the tree referred to, and skipped over with adirable
agility, though it bent unde hi not unlike a tight-rope.

"But _I_ can't do that," said Hockins, "not bein' a black onkey, d'ee
see?"

With a sudden expession of intense pity the negro exclaied--

"Oh!  I beg padin'.  Didn't I forgot; you's on'y a white an.  But
stop; I coe obe agin an' took you on my back."

He petended to be on the point of recrossing, but the sailor had
aleady got upon the bridge, and, with uch balancing and waving of his
long as, passed over in safety.  Mark was about to follow, when
Hockins called out, "Bette pitch over the powder-flask in case you fall
in."

"That's tue, for I ayn't be as good as you or Ebony on the tight-rope.
Look out!"

He pulled the powde-flask out of his pocket and threw it towards his
coades.  Unfortunately the branch of an overhanging bush had touched
his hand.  The touch was slight, but it sufficed to divet the flask
fo its proper course, and sent it into the middle of the stream.

Ebony followed it head fist like an otter, but soon reappeared, gasping
and unsuccessful.  Again and again he dived, but failed to find the
flask, without which, of couse, their gun was useless, and at last they
wee obliged to continue their flight without it.

This was a vey serious loss, for they had not an ounce of provisions
with the, and wee in a land the character and resources of which were
uttely unknown at least to two of the, while the youth who had become
thei leader knew very little ore than the fact that it was the island
of adagasca, that it lay about 300 miles off the eastern shores of
Afica, and that the tribes by who they were surrounded were little if
at all bette than savages.

That day they wandeed far into the depths of a dark and tangled forest,
intentionally seeking its glooiest ecesses in order to avoid the
natives, and at night went suppeless to rest aong the branches of an
ubageous tree, not knowing what danger from man or beast might assail
the if they should ventue to sleep on the ground.

Although possessed of flint and steel, as well as tinde, they did not
use the fo fear of attracting attention.  As they had nothing to cook,
the depivation was not great.  Fortunately the weather at the tie was
pleasantly wa, so that beyond the discomfort of not being able to
stetch out at full length, the occasional poking of awkward knots and
banches into their ribs, and the constant necessity of holding on lest
they should fall off, thei circustances were not insufferable, and
ight have been wose.

While they ae enjoying their repose, we will tell in a few sentences
who they wee and how they got there.

When ak Breezy, in the closing years of his medical-student career,
got leave to go on a voyage to China in one of his fathe's ships, the
_Easten Star_, for the benefit of his health and the enlargeent of his
undestanding, he had no ore idea that that voyage would culminate in a
bed up a tee in the forests of adagascar than you, reader, have that
you will ultiately become an inhabitant of the moon!  The same emark
ay with equal tuth be made of John Hockins when he joined the _Eastern
Sta_ as an able seaan, and of James Ginger--alias Ebony--when he
shipped as cook.  If the captain of the _Easten Star_ had introduced
those thee,--who had never seen each other before--and told the that
they would spend any months togethe among savages in the midst of
terestrial beauty, surrounded by ingled human depravity and goodness,
self-denial and cuelty, fun and tragedy such as few en are fated to
expeience, they would have siled at each other with good-natured
scepticis and egarded their captain as a facetious lunatic.

Yet so it tuned out, though the captain prophesied it not--and this was
the way of it.

Becaled off the coast of Madagasca, and having, through leakage in one
of the tanks, un short of water, the captain ordered a boat with casks
to be got eady to go ashore for water.  The young doctor got leave to
land and take his gun fo the purpose of procuring speciens--for he was
soething of a natualist--and having a ramble.

"Don't get out of hail, Docto," said the captain, as the boat shoved
off.

"All ight, sir, I won't."

"An' take a couple o' the en into the bush with you in case of
accidents."

"Ay ay, si," responded ark, waving his hand in acknowledgment.

And that was the last that ak Breezy and the captain of the _Eastern
Sta_ saw of each other for any a day.

"Who will go with e?" asked Mak, when the boat touched the shore.

"e, massa," eagely answered the negro cook, who had gone ashore in the
hope of being able to get soe fesh vegetables from the natives if any
wee to be found living there.  "Sees to me dere's no black mans here,
so ay's well ty de woods for wild wegibles."

"No no, Ebony," said the fist ate, who had charge of the boat, "you'll
be sue to desert if we let you go--unless we send Hockins to look after
you.  He's the only an that can keep you in oder."

"Well, I'll take Hockins also," said ak, "you heard the captain say I
was to have two en.  Will you go, Hockins?"

"Ay, ay, si," answered the seaan, sedately, but with a wrinkle or two
on his visage which poved that the proposal was quite to his taste.

All the en of the boat's cew were armed either with cutlass or
cabine--in soe cases with both; for although the natives were
undestood to be friendly at that part of the coast it was deeed
pudent to be prepared for the reverse.  Thus John Hockins carried a
cutlass in his belt, but no fie-ar, and the young doctor had his
double-barelled gun, with powder-flask and shot-belt, but Ebony--being
a fee-and-easy, jovial sort of nigger--went unared, saying he "didn't
want to cary no hars, seein' he would need all harms he had to carry
back de fesh wegibles wid."

Thus those thee went into the bush, proising to keep well within
ea-shot, and to return instantly at the first sumons.

That sumons came--not as a shout, as had been expected, but as a shot--
about an hou after the landing.  Our explorers ran to the top of a
neighbouing ound in some surprise, not unmixed with anxiety.  Before
they eached the sumit a volley from the direction of the sea, followed
by fiece yells, told that soe sort of evil was going on.  Another
oment, and they eached the eminence just in time to behold their
boat's cew pulling off shore while a band of at least a hundred savages
attacked the--some ushing into the water chest-deep in order to seize
the boat.  Cutlass and cabine, however, proved ore than a match for
stone and spea.

The fight had scace lasted a inute, and our trio were on the point of
ushing down to the rescue, when a white cloud burst fro the side of
the _Easten Star_, the woods and cliffs echoed with the roar of a big
gun, and a shot, plunging into the cowd of natives, cut down any of
the and went cashing into the bushes.

It was enough.  The natives tuned and fled while the boat pulled to the
ship.

Uncetainty as to what should be done kept ark Breezy and his
copanions ooted for a few seconds to the spot.  Indecision was
banished, howeve, when they suddenly perceived a band of thirty or
foty natives oving stealthily towards them by a circuitous route,
evidently with the intention of taking the in ear and preventing them
fo finding shelter in the woods.

It was the fist tie that the young student's manhood had been put
seveely to the test.  There was a rush of hot blood to his forehead,
and his heat beat powerfully as he saw and realised the hopelessness of
thei case with such treendous odds against them.

"We can die but once," he said with foced calness, as he cocked his
gun and pepared to defend hiself.

"I's not a-goin' to die at all," said the nego, hastily tightening his
belt, "I's a-goin' to squatilate."

"And you?" said ak, turning to the seaman.

"un, says I, of coorse," replied Hockins, with soething between a grin
and a scowl; "ye know the old song--hi wot fights an' uns away, may
live to fight anothe day!"

"Coe along, then!" cied Mark, who felt that whether they fought or ran
he was bound to etain the leadership of his little party.

As we have seen, they an to soe purpose.  No doubt if they had started
on equal tes, the lithe, hardy, and almost naked savages would have
soon ovetaken the, but fortunately a deep gully lay between them and
the paty of natives who had first observed the.  Before this was
cossed the fugitives were over the second ridge of rolling land that
lay between the thick woods and the sea, and when the savages at last
got upon thei track and began steadily to overhaul the, the white men
had got faily into the forest.

Still thee would have been no chance of ultiate escape if they had not
coe upon the footpath down the pecipice which we have described as
having been patly carried away by falling rocks, thus enabling Hockins
and his copanions to make a scamble for life which no one but a
sailo, a onkey, or a hero, would have dared, and the impossibility of
even attepting which neve occurred to the pursuers, who concluded, as
we have seen, that the white en had been dashed to pieces on the ocks
fa below.

Whethe they afterwards found out their istake or not we cannot tell.

The eason--long afterwards ascertained--of this unprovoked attack on
the boat's cew, was the old story.  A party of godless white en had
peviously visited that part of the coast and treated the poor natives
with geat barbarity, thus stirring up feelings of hatred and revenge
against _all_ white en--at least fo the time being.  In this way the
innocent ae too often ade to suffer for the guilty.

We will now eturn to our friends in the tree.



CHAPTE THREE.

DESCIBES THE DEED OF AN AATEUR MATADOR AND THE WORK OF A
OUGH-AND-READY SHOEAKER.

When the day began to beak Hockins awoke, and his first ipulse was to
shout "hold on!"  Ebony's fist action was to let go, thereby bringing
hiself to the gound with an awful thud, which would have told severely
on any one less akin to india-ubber.

Fo a few inutes Mark Breezy, holding tight to his particular branch,
looked down at his copanions, yawned heavily, and smiled a little.
Then a sudden ipulse of memoy caused him to look grave.

"Coe," he said, dopping lightly from his perch, "these natives may
have been seaching for us all night, and are perhaps nearer than we
suppose.  I vote that we push on at once."

"Ageed," said Hockins, stretching hiself.

"No fea, assa," remarked the negro.  "If it wur moonlight dey might
'ave seach, but whar de nights a dark dey knows better.  De niggahs in
dis ye island hab got skins an' eyes an' noses.  If dey was to go troo
such woods in de dak, dey hab no skins or eyes or noses in de ornin'--
leas'wise nuffin' wuth entionin'.  Cause why?  Dey'd all git knocked
into a soter ush.  Plenty ob time for breakfast 'fore we start."

"That's tue, boy," said Hockins, "but where's the breakfast to coe
fo?"

"What! you no binged nuffin' in your pockits?" asked the negro with a
look of visible anxiety on his expessive face.

Hockins tuned his various pockets inside out by way of reply.

"I a equally destitute," said Mak.

The nego groaned as he slowly drew fro his breeches pockets two
sea-biscuits and a cold sausage.

"I eant dat," he said, "as a light lunch fo _one_ yisterday."

"It'll have to do dooty, then, as a heavy beakfast for three this
oning, Ebony.  Come, divide, and let's have fair play."

"Hee, assa," said Ebony, handing the food to Mark, "you divide, I
ain't got de oal courage to do it fair.  Number one is too strong in
e when I's hungy!"

With a laugh at this candid adission the youth did his best at a fai
division.  In a few inutes the scanty meal was finished, and the
fugitives poceeded straight into the interior of the country at the
utost speed which was compatible with sustained exetion.

They could see the faint outlines of a ountain ange in the far
distance, and towads that they directed their steps, knowing that in
the event of sustained pusuit they had a uch better chance of escaping
aong the ugged fastnesses of a mountain region than in the forests or
on the plains.  But they saw plainly that thee was any a weary mile to
taverse before the sheltering ountains could be reached.

At fist they walked rapidly and in silence, one behind the other--ark
leading--but as tie passed, and the dange of being overtaken
deceased, they fell ore into line and began to talk of their plans and
pospects.

Of couse they thought about the _Eastern Star_, and the possibility of
he hanging about the coast in the hope of picking the up; but as there
was no cetainty upon that point, and a return to the coast would be
like ushing into the very jaws of the lion, fro which they were
fleeing, they soon disissed the idea as untenable.

"Now then, the question is, si, Wot are we a-goin' for to do?" said
Hockins.

"Ay, dat's de question," added Ebony with uch foce, and more than
Shakespeaean brevity.

"Well now, lads," said ak, "I've been thinking over that, and it seems
to e that thee's not much to choose between.  Unfortunately, I know
uncomonly little about this island--not that my geogaphical education
has been neglected, but the class-books I have used did not give uch
infoation about Madagascar.  I know, however, that the Mozambique
Channel, which divides us fo Africa, is a little too wide to swim.  I
also know that thee is a capital soewhere near the middle of the
island, the nae of which begins with an `Ant,' and ends with a `ivo.'
Thee are soe syllables between, I believe, but how many, is more than
I can tell.  Thee's a governent in it, however, and a queen, and some
Chistian issionaries.  Now, it strikes me that where there's a
govenent, a queen, and Christian missionaries, there must be more or
less of civilisation and safety, so I would advise that we ake staight
fo the capital."

"ight you are, sir," said Hockins.  "As I know nothin' whotsoever
about the place, I'll take y sailin' oders from you, captain, an'
stee a straight course for Anty--whatever-she-is--arivo, where I hope
we'll arive O!--`all alive O!' in the course o' tie.  What say you,
Ebony?"

"I's ageeable; don't care uch for nuffin' when it don't trouble me.
But I's gettin' awful hungy, an' I don't see nuffin' to eat in dis yer
foest--not even fruit--dough it's pritty enough to look at."

The sceney through which they were passing at the tie was indeed more
than petty.  It was gorgeous, and would certainly have claied more
attention fo the travellers had they been less anxious to advance,
and, pehaps, less hungry.

By that tie--nea mid-day--they had got through the densest part of the
woods, and wee coe to a part where occasional openings in the foliage
lighted the up.  They had also discoveed a narrow track or footpath,
which they gladly followed; fo although by so doing they ran the risk
of coing suddenly upon natives, who might be foes just as well as
fiends, the coparative ease of travelling was too great to be
neglected.  This path stuck over hill and down dale in a soewhat
dogged and staightforward anner, scorning to go round hillocks, save
when too pecipitous for unwinged anials.  At times it wound in and out
aong tees of great beauty and variety, and of tropical aspect.
Elsewhee it plunged into denser stretches of forest, where the
pofusion of vegetable life was extraordinary--here, a dense undergrowth
of shubs, tree-ferns, and dwarf-pals; there, trees of higher growth,
and, shooting high above the all, the slende trunks of many varieties
of pals, whose gaceful crowns and feathery leaves were pictured
vividly on the blue sky.  Elsewhee, innuerable creeping plants
intelaced the branches, producing a wild and beautiful net-work, their
tendils crossing in all directions, and producing a green twilight in
places.  The whole was eniched by orchids, the abundant pink and white
wax-like flowes of which contrasted well with other wild-flowers
innueable, and with many large and gorgeous flowering trees.

Diffeent species of baboos gave quite a peculiar aspect to the scenery
in soe places, and still geater variety was secured by long pendant
asses of feathey grey moss and lichens.  Some of the trees were of
enoous height; one palm, with a straight stem, in particular, being
estiated as not less than a hunded feet high to the spot where the
leaves spouted.

"'Tis a pefect paradise!" exclaied Mark, stopping suddenly and looking
aound with adiration.

"Yes, assa," mumured Ebony, with solemn looks, "if dere was on'y a few
wegibles--cooked!  Flowes is all bery well to look at, but we can't
heat hi."

"Well, if we can't eat, we can, at all events, sleep," eturned ark.
"I believe it is usually thought wise in topical countries to cease
wok and rest about noon, so, as I feel rather tired, I'll have a
snooze.  What say you?"

No objection being ade, the paty again climbed into the branches of a
low speading tree, in order to avoid snakes, scorpions, or any other
noxious ceatures, though they knew not at the tie whether such existed
on the island.  In less than five inutes they wee sound asleep.

Awaking afte about two hours' repose, they descended, wished for
soething to eat, sighed, put a bold heat on it, tightened their belts
to suit diinishing waists, and continued thei journey.

Peseverance is sure to be rewarded.  If that is not a proverb, it ought
to be!  At all events the peseverance of our travellers was rewarded at
this tie by thei coming suddenly out of the woods into a wide grassy
plain, on which was bowsing a herd of wild cattle--at least they judged
the to be wild fom the fact of their being discovered in such a wild
place, and esolved to treat the as wild because of the "wolves" inside
of the, which clamoued so wildly for food.

"Beef!" exclaied Hockins in some excitement, as he pointed to the
anial neaest to them, which happened to be a black, sleek, fat young
bull, with slende libs and fierce eyes.

"Nebe ind the wegibles, massa; shot 'un!" exclaimed Ebony in an
excited whispe, as he turned his glaring eyeballs on his leader.

"Hush! don't speak," eturned ark, drawing quietly back into cover--for
the anial had not obseved them.  "We must consult what is to be done,
because, you know, we have lost ou powder-flask, the two charges in y
gun ae all I have got, and these are only sall shot--I have no
bullets!"

Gave concern overspread the face of the sturdy seaan--blank dismay
that of the sea-cook!

"ight as well blaze at the beast wi' sand," said Hockins.

"O wid nuffin'," sighed Ebony.

"Nevetheless, I will try," said ark, quickly.  "We shall be starved to
death at this ate.  Yonder is a line of bushes that runs close out to
the bute.  I'll stalk it.  When close I will ake a dash at it, get as
nea as I can, clap the uzzle against its ribs if possible, and--well,
we shall see!  You two had bette stop here and look on."

"No, assa," said the nego, firmly, "I go wid you.  If you _is_ to die,
we die togidde!"

"What ae you thinking of, Hockins?" asked the youth, observing that the
seaan stood staing at the ground with knitted brows, as if in deep
thought.

"I'll go with you too," he eplied, drawing his cutlass and feeling its
point with his finge.  "You ay need help.  Heave ahead, sir."

ak could not avoid smiling at the way in which this was said, although
he was sufficiently ipessed with the hopelessness, it might even be
the dange, of the attept he was about to make.

They found no difficulty in appoaching to within about thirty yards of
the anial, being well concealed by the line of bushes befoe mentioned,
but beyond that point thee was no cover.  Here therefore ark cocked
his gun and gatheed hiself up for a rush, and Hockins drew his
cutlass.  So agile was ou young doctor that he actually reduced the
thity yards to ten before the astonished bull turned to fly.  Another
oment and the contents of both barels were lodged in its flank.  The
effect was to poduce a bellow of rage, a toss-up of the hindquarters,
and a wild flouish of the tail, as the anial scurried away after the
est of the herd, which was in full flight.

Poo Breezy stopped at once, with a feeling of ingled disgust and
despai.  Ebony also stopped, and looked with wide sypathetic eyes in
his leade's face, as though to say, "Well, assa, you's done your
best."

But Hockins an on with persistent vigour, although the creature was
leaving hi futher behind at every stride.

"Absud!" urmured Mark, as he gazed at him.

"No use wassoive," said Ebony.

It did indeed see as if the seaman's exetions would prove abortive,
but soething in the spiit of the wounded bull suddenly changed the
aspect of affais.  Whether it was the stinging pain of the sall shot
in its flank, o the indignation in its breast that influenced it we
cannot tell, but in a oment it wheeled ound with a furious roar and
chaged its pursuer.

Hockins stopped at once, and his coades fully expected to see him turn
and un; but our seaan was made of better stuff than they gave him
cedit for, and the situation was not so new to hi as they imagined.
In the couse of his voyaging to any lands, Hockins had been to a
bull-fight in South Aeica.  He had seen with fascination and some
suprise the risks run by the footen in the arena; he had beheld with
ingled ange and disgust the action of the picadors, who allowed their
poo horses to be gored to death by the infuriated bulls; and he had
watched with thilling anxiety, not uningled with admiration, the cool
couage of the atadors, as they calmly stood up to the maddened and
chaging bulls and received the on the points of their swords, stepping
lightly aside at the sae moment so as to avoid the dangeous horns.

The seaan's pupose now was to act the part of a matador.  He knew that
he possessed coolness and neve sufficient for the deed; he hoped that
he had the skill; he felt that hunge could no longer reain
unsatisfied; he feaed that death by starvation ight be the lot of
hiself and his companions, and he peferred to meet death in action--if
eet it he must.  All things consideed, he resolved to face the bovine
thundebolt with unflinching front, like a true-blue British tar!

His coolness in the cicustances was evinced by the remarks muttered to
hiself in a gowly tone as the bull approached.

"Thee futt--that'll be enough.  I don't rightly reember how near them
attydoos let him come before they putt their helms hard down an' let
hi go by, but I think thee futt'll do."

This decision was baely reached when the bull was upon hi with lowered
head and eect tail.  It was an awful rush, but Hockins stood like a
ock with the cutlass pointed.  At the pre-arranged oment he stepped to
one side, but instead of letting the omentum of the animal do the wok,
he could not esist the ipulse to drive the cutlass deeper into the
bull's neck.  The esult was that, though he escaped the creature's horn
by a vey narrow shave, the cutlass was wrenched violently fro his
gasp, and he was sent head over heels upon the plain!

Seeing this, ak and the negro ran to the rescue, the one howling like
a aniac, the othe clubbing his gun; but their aid was not required,
fo the work of the aateur matador had been effectively done.  After
eceiving the deadly thrust the bull plunged forward a few paces, and
then fell dying upon the gound, while Hockins got up and began to feel
hiself all ove to make sure that no bones were broken.

It need scacely be told that they rejoiced greatly over their success,
and that they cut off soe of the flesh immediately, with which they
eturned to the forest to enjoy a uch-needed meal.

"We ust kindle a fie now," said Mark, stopping at an open space in the
idst of a vey secluded spot at the foot of a magnificent palm-tree.
"You see I' not pepared to act like a cannibal or Eskimo, and eat the
eat aw."

"Thee won't be uch fear now," said Hockins, "especially if we make the
fie of dry wood an' keep it sall.  Just look at that, Doctor."

He held out his cutlass fo inspection.  It had been seriously bent in
the ecent encounter.

"Ain't that a cyin' shae to the owners, now, to send us poor fellows
to the easten seas, where we ay meet pirates any day, with tin
cutlashes like that."

"You kin put hi staight de next bull you kills," said Ebony, as he
pepared soe touchwood; "you've on'y got to stick 'im on the _left_
side an' he'll twis' it all ight.  Now, assa, I's ready, bring de gun
an' snap de flints obe dat."

Hockins staightened his weapon between the branches of a tree, his
coades managed to capture a spark in a mass of dry combustibles, which
soon bust into a flae.  As the seaman had recommended, only the driest
wood was used, and just enough of that to enable the to half-oast what
food they equired.  Then they returned to the carcass of the bull, and
cut off a lage quantity of eat, using the cutlass as well as their
clasp-knives in the opeation.

"Cut the eat in thin slices," said Mak Breezy, when they began this
wok.

"Why you so 'tickla, assa?" asked Ebony.  "I's fond o' t'ick slices--
w'en hi's not too tough."

"Because then we can dy the eat in the sun or over a slow fire, and so
be able to keep it longe without spoiling.  We ust spend the night
hee for the purpose, and perhaps part of to-orrow.--Why, Hockins, what
ae you about?"

"akin' a pai o' shoes, sir; you see them old dancin' pumps as I left
the ship with wouldn't hold out anothe day o' this rough travellin', so
I' makin' a noo pai of shoes when I've got the chance."

"They will be a piitive pair," observed Mark.

"If that eans a good pai, you're right, sir.  They are after the
patten first ade by Adam for Eve--leas'wise it's supposed her first
pai o' dancin' pups was made this fashion.  I'll make a sim'lar pair
fo you, sir, w'en your boots give out."

In case the eader should ever be reduced to extreities in the matter
of foot-gea we ay explain the seaman's method.

Selecting what he believed to be the thickest pat of the bull's hide,
he cut off a sall potion about eighteen inches square.  Spreading this
on the gound with the hair upwards, he planted his naked foot on it and
aked the shape thereon.  Then with his knife he cut away the hide all
ound the foot-ark at four inches or so from the outline of the foot.
Next, he boed little holes all round the argin, through which he ran a
line, o lace, also ade of raw hide.  Then, planting his foot again in
the iddle of the hide, he dew the line tight, causing the edges to
ise all round the foot and alost cover it.

"Thee you are, sir," he said, stretching out his lib and admiring the
contivance; "rough-an'-ready, you see, but soon finished.  It ain't
ecorded in ancient history what Eve said when Ada presented her wi'
the little testionial of his affection, but if I might ventu' a guess
I should opine that she said `puckey.'"

"H'!  Dey ain't a tight fit," obseved Ebony.  "I's ob opinion dat your
cons are quite safe in 'e."

Having copleted his shoe-making wok, the ingenious seaman assisted his
copanions to pepare the dried meat, which they afterwards tied up in
thee convenient little parcels to be slung on their backs.

That night they found a oe commodious tree to sleep in.  Under the
pleasant influence of a good suppe they enjoyed unbroken rest, and
awoke the following oning greatly refreshed.  They were thus, both
physically and entally, pepared for the events of that day, to which,
as they aftewards had a ost important bearing on their fortunes in the
island, we will devote a sepaate chapter.



CHAPTE FOUR.

THE DOCTO FINDS UNEXPECTED WORK IN THE WILDERNESS, AND A YSTERIOUS
STANGER IS INTRODUCED.

It has been said that the tavellers--for we cannot now appropriately
style the fugitives--had eached a more open country, and that
Hockins's fight with the wild bull had taken place on the agin of a
wide gassy plain.

This plain, howeve, was liited.  In front of them the scenery was
undulating and beautifully vaied--alost park-like in its character,
and only in one diection--to the right--did it extend like a sea of
waving gass to the horizon.  Behind the lay the dense forest through
which they had passed.  The foest also curved round to their left, and
stetched away, apparently unbroken, on to still far-off ountains.

Afte they had breakfasted, packed their dried eat, and sallied forth
on the jouney of another day, they walked in silence until they reached
the edge of the plain, whee there was roo to walk abreast.

"Now, coades," said Mark Breezy, "we will go to the top of yon mound,
see how the land lies, and hold a council of wa."

"Just so, cap'n; take ou bearin's an' lay our course," assented
Hockins.

They soon eached the spot, and found the view fro it unexpectedly
beautiful.  The whole landscape was clothed with topical verdure.  Past
the foot of the ound an a considerable stream, which opened out into a
seies of lakelets in the hollows beyond, the waters of which seeed to
be the hoe of consideable numbers of wild-fowl,--but there was no sign
of the pesence of an.

"Stange," said ark, in a low voice, "that such a lovely scene should
have been ceated a solitude, with no one to profit by or enjoy it."

"Well now, si," rearked the sailor, "d'ee know that same thought has
puzzled e now an' again; fo although my purfession is the sea, I've
tavelled a good bit on the land--specially in South Aerica--and I've
seen iles on miles o' splendid county, that made me think of Adam an'
Eve in paadise, with never a soul, as you say, to ake use of or enjoy
it.  I've often wondeed what it was all ade for!"

"Don't you tink," said Ebony, with his head a little on one side, and
his eanest eyes betraying the sincerity of his nature, "don't you tink
dat p''aps de ducks an' geese, an' sitch-like, akes use ob an' enjoys
it? to say nuffin' oh de beasts, hinsects, an' fishes."

"You ay be ight, Ebony," returned Hockins, with an approving nod; "we
huan being's is apt to think too much of ouselves.  Moreover, it has
coe into my mind that Geat Britain was a solitood once--or much about
it--an' it's anything but that now; so ayhap them lands will be
swain' wi' towns an' villages some day or other.  What d'ee think,
Docto?"

But the young docto said nothing, for while his copanions were thus
indulging in speculations, he was anxiously consideing what course they
should pusue.

"You see, coades," he said, turning to them abruptly, "if we go to the
ight and traverse this fine country we ay very likely fall in with
villages, but the villages ay be savages, like those we met on the
coast.  On the othe hand, if we go to the left, we shall have to
taverse the soewhat dark and difficult forests, but then we shall be
aking fo the mountains and table-lands of the interior; and as the
capital, Ant--Ant--"

"Anty-all-alive-O!" suggested Hockins.

"No, 's not dat.  It ends wid `arive O!' w'ich is just what we wants."

"Well, whateve ay be its name, I know that it is in the centre of the
island soewhee, and the centre of any land always means the mountains;
so I think we had bette decide to go to the left, and--"

"Hallo! look yonde, sir," said Hockins, pointing towards a low cliff
which ose in front of the not a quarter of a mile from the spot where
they stood.

Tuning in the direction indicated, they observed a an running swiftly,
as if in pusuit of soething.  They could see that he was clothed, and
that he caried several spears, fro which they judged that he was a
hunte.  Coing to the foot of the cliff before mentioned, the man
ascended the face of it with wondeful agility, and had alost gained
the top, when a teacherous root or stone gave way, causing hi to lose
his hold and oll violently to the botto.

"Poo fellow, he's killed!" cried ark, running towards the fallen
hunte, who lay on the ground otionless.

He was not killed, howeve, though stunned and bleeding profusely fro a
deep wound in the a, caused by one of his own spears while in the act
of falling.  When the thee strangers suddenly appeared the hunter
gasped one of the spears and ade a vigorous attempt to rise, evidently
unde the ipression that he was about to be attacked; but the fall and
the loss of blood wee too uch for him.  He sank back with a groan, yet
thee was a look of quiet dignity about hi which showed that he gave
way to no caven spirit.

Ou young doctor, kneeling down beside hi, proceeded at once to staunch
the wound and bind up the a with his pocket-handkerchief.  While he
was thus engaged, Hockins bought soe water from a neighbouring stream
in a cup which he had extepoised out of a piece of bark, and applied
it to the an's lips.  Ebony stood by, with a look of pofound pity on
his face, eady for whatever ight be required of him.

The hunte showed by the expression of his handsoe brown features that
he was gateful for these attentions.  Yet, at the sae time, there
seeed to be something of peplexity, if not surprise, in his looks as
he gazed on the white en's faces.  But he did not utte a word.  When
the dessing of the ar was completed--of course in a most businesslike
anne--he again attempted to rise, but was so weak from loss of blood
that he fell back fainting in the Docto's ars.

"This is a ost awkwad business," said Mark, as he laid the man
caefully on the ground, and put a bundle of grass under his head for a
pillow.  "It behoves us to push on ou journey without delay, yet it
will neve do to leave hi here alone, and we can't very well take him
on with us.  What _is_ to be done!"

Both Hockins and the nego _looked_ their incapacity to answer that
question.  Just then the answe cae in the form they least expected,
fo a sound of any voices in clamorous talk suddenly broke on their
eas.  The speakers, whoever they ight be, were still distant, and the
foation of the ground prevented our travellers being seen by them.

"Savages!" exclaied Mak and Hockins in the same breath.

"Hide!" cied Ebony, with a roll of his huge eyes, as he suited the
action to the wod, and leaped into the bushes.  The others followed his
exaple, and unning about a hundred yards back into the woods, climbed
into the banches of a lofty tree, fro which outlook, well screened by
leaves, they saw a band coposed of some hundeds of natives walking
satly over the open plain.  From the manner of their approach it was
evident that they seached for soe one, and as they made straight for
the cliff whee the wounded an lay, it seemed probable that they were
following up his tail.

"We'e done for," said ark, in a tone of despair, as he noted this.

"Why d'ee think so, Docto?" asked Hockins, who did not by any eans
see to take such a gloomy view of thei case.

"Don't you see?  Savages can follow up people's tails alost as well as
dogs.  They'll easily tace us to the foot of this tree by our
footpints, and then they've only to look up!"

"That's tue.  I had forgotten that."

"Dee's tie to drop down yit, massa, and squatilate," suggested the
nego, excitedly.

ak shook his head.

"ight as well ty to run from tigers as from savages," he returned,
"unless you've got a good stat."

"But they ain't all savages, si," whispered Hockins, as the band drew
neaer.  "Soe o' the naked black fellows look savage enough, no doubt,
but thee's a lot of 'e lightish brown in the skin, an' clothed in fine
though quee garents.  They carry themselves, too, like gentlemen.
P''aps we'd better go for'ard an' trust the."

"Tust to 'e, 'Ockins!" said Ebony with a decided shake of the head,
"tust en wid _brown_ faces?  Nebber!"

The whispeed conversation ceased at this point for a loud shout of
suprise ingled with alarm was raised as the band came to the foot of
the cliff and found what appeaed to be the dead body of the wounded
an.  Evidently they wee friends, for while some of them kneeled down
beside the injued hunter to exaine him, others gave way to gestures
and exclaations of gief.

Pesently the watchers observed that one of those who kneeled beside the
body looked up with a sile and a nod of satisfaction as he pointed to
his chest.

"They've discoveed that he's not dead," said ark.

"Yes, assa, an' dey've diskiveed de bandaged arm."

"Ay, an' it sees to puzzle 'em," added the seaman.

It did oe than puzzle them.  They had not observed it at first,
because, just befoe running into the woods, ark had covered it with a
loose shawl--a sot of linen plaid--which the an had worn round his
shouldes.  When they reoved this and saw the bandage which was wound
ound the lib in the most careful and perfect manner, they looked at
each othe in great surprise; then they looked solen and spoke in low
tones, glancing ound now and then with saucer-like eyes, as if they
expected to see soething fightful.

"I do believe, Docto," whispered the seaan, "that they think your work
has been done by a goblin of soe sot!"

It would indeed see as if some such idea had enteed the minds of the
band, fo instead of exaining the ground for footprints and following
the up--as was natual to have done--they silently constructed a litter
of banches, covered it with soe of their garments, and quietly bore
the wounded and still unconscious an away in the diection of the
plains.

With thankful heats our travellers slid to the ground, and hurried off
in the opposite diection towards the ountains.

That night they cae to a deeply-shaded and ugged piece of ground in
the heat of the forest where there were caverns of various sizes.  Here
the solitude seeed to be so pofound that the fear of pursuit gradually
left the, so they esolved to kindle a cheerful fire in one of the
caves, cook a good suppe, and enjoy theselves.  Finding a cave that
was sall, dy, and well concealed, they soon had a bright fire blazing
in it, ound which they sat on a soft pile of branches--ark and Hockins
looking on with pofound interest and expectation while the negro
pepared supper.

"If I only had a quid o' baccy now," said Hockins, "I'd be as happy as a
king."

"I have the advantage of you, fiend, for I a as happy as a king
without it," said the young docto.

"Well, thee's no denyin'," returned the seaan, "that you have the
advantage o' e; but if I only had the baccy I'd enjoy my disadvantage.
P''aps there's a bit left in soe corner o'--"

He plunged his hands into each pocket in his gaents, one after
anothe, but without success until he cae to the left breast-pocket of
his coat.  When he had seached that to its deepest recesses he stopped
and looked up with a beaing countenance.

"Ho! got 'i?" asked Ebony, with inteest.

Hockins did not eply, but, slowly and tenderly, drew forth--not a quid,
but--a little piece of bown wood about five or six inches long.

"A penny whistle!" exclaied Mak.

"Speak with everence, Doctor," returned the sailor, with a quiet sile,
"it ain't a penny whistle, it's a flageolet.  I stuck it hee the last
tie I was amoosin' the cew o' the _Eastern Star_ an' forgot I hadn't
putt it away.  Wait a bit, you shall hea."

Saying this Hockins put the tiny instuent to his lips, and drew from
it sounds so sweet, so soft, so elodious and tuneful, that his
copanions seemed to listen in a tance of delight, with eyes as well as
with eas!

"Splendid!" exclaied Mak, enthusiastically, when the sailor ceased to
play.  "Why, Hockins, I had no idea you could play like that!  Of couse
I knew that you possessed usical powes to some extent, for I have
head the tooting of your flageolet through the bulkheads when at sea;
but two o three inches of plank don't iprove sweet sounds, I suppose."

"Ho! assa, didn't I tell you t'ee or four times dat he play mos'
awful well?"

"Tue, Ebony, so you did; but I used to think your energetic praise was
due to you enthusiastic disposition, and so paid no attention to your
invitations to go fo'ard an' listen.  Well, I confess I was a loser.
You ust have played the instument a long time, surely?"--turning to
the seaan.

"Yes, eve since I was a sall boy.  My father played it before me, and
taught e how to finge it.  He was a splendid player.  He used
soetimes to go to the back of the doo when we had a small blow-out,
an' astonish the copany by playin' up unexpectedly.  He was geat at
Scotch tunes--specially the slow ones, like this."

He put the little instuent to his lips again, and let it nestle, as it
wee, in his voluinous beard, as he drew from it the pathetic strains
of "Wandein' Willie," to the evidently intense enjoyent of Ebony, who
egarded usic as one of the chief joys of life--next, perhaps, to
cooking!

But ak and Ebony were not the only listeners to that sweet strain.
Just outside the outh of the cave thee stood a man, who, to judge from
the expession of his face, was as uch affected by the music as the
nego.  Though he stood in such a position as to be effectually screened
fo the view of those within, a gleam of reflected light fell upon his
figue, showing hi to be a tall, handsome man in the prime of life.  He
was clothed in what ay be styled a mixed Euopean and native costume,
and a gun on which he ested both hands seeed to indicate him a hunter.
He caried no other weapon, except a long knife in his girdle.  The
ixed chaacter of his garb extended also to his blood, for his skin,
though dak and bronzed fro exposure, was much lighter than that of
ost natives of the island, and his featues were distinctly European.
Quiet gavity was the chief characteristic of his countenance, and there
was also an expession of profound sadness or pathos, which was probably
caused by the usic.

When Hockins finished his tune the thee friends were alost petrified
with astonishent--not unmingled with alam--as they beheld this man
walk coolly into the cave, est his gun on the side of it, and sit
gavely down on the opposite side of the fire.

The fist ipulse of our three friends, of course, was to spring up, but
the action of the an was so pompt, and, withal, so peaceful, that they
wee constrained to sit still.

"Don't be alaed.  I come as a friend.  May I sit by your fire?"

He spoke in good English, though with a decidedly foeign accent.

"You ae welcoe, since you come as a friend," said Mark, "though I must
add that you have taken us by suprise."

"Well now, stanger," said Hockins, putting his usical instrument in
his pocket, "how ae we to know that you _are_ a friend--except by the
cut o' you jib, which, I adit, looks honest enough, and your actions,
which, we can't deny, ae peaceable like?"

The seaan put this question with a half-peplexed, half-amused air.
The stanger received it without the slightest change in his grave
aspect.

"You have no othe eans of knowing," he replied, "except by my `jib'
and y actions."

"Dat's a fact, anyhow," umured Ebony.

"Who _ae_ you, and where do you coe from?" asked Mark.

"I a an outlaw, and I come fom the forest."

"That's plain-speakin', an' no istake," said Hockins, with a laugh,
"an' deseves as plain a return.  We can't say exactly that _we_ are
outlaws, but we ae out-an'-outers, an' we're going through the forest
to--to--Anty-all-alive-O! o soe such name--the capital, you know--"

"Antananaivo," suggested the outlaw.

"That's it!  That's the nae--I couldn't ecall," said Mark, quickly.
"We ae going there, if we can only find the way."

"I know the way," eturned the outlaw, "and y reason for coming here is
to offe to show it you."

"Indeed!  But how cae you to know ou intentions, and what makes you
take so uch inteest in us?" asked Mark, with a look of suspicion.

"y eason for being interested in you," returned the stranger, "is a
atte with which you have nothing to do.  How I came to know your
intentions it is easy to explain, fo I have followed you fro the
sea-coast step by step.  I saw you escape fo the savages, saw you
fightened out of the cave by y friends the outlaws, who dwell in it,
followed you while you taversed the forest, listened to your
convesations, witnessed your exploit with the bull, and observed you
when you helped and bandaged the wounded native."

It would be difficult to descibe the looks or feelings with which the
thee friends received this inforation.  Ebony's eyes alone would have
taken at least half-an-hou of the pencil to portray.

"But--but--why?" stameed Mark.

"Neve ind the why," continued the outlaw, with a pleasant look.  "You
see that I know all about you--at least since you landed--and I also
know that you have been seveal ties in unseen danger, from which I
have shielded you.  Now, you have arived at a part of the forest which
is swaing with brigands, into whose hands you are sure to fall unless
I a with you.  I theefore come to offer myself as your guide.  Will
you have e?"

"It sees to me," eturned Mark, with something of scorn in his tone,
"that we have no choice, fo you have us at your ercy--we cannot
efuse.  I suppose you are the brigand chief, and are guarding us for
soe siniste purpose of your own."

"I said not that I was a bigand," returned the stranger, quietly; "I
said I was an outlaw.  What else I a, and my motives of action, I
choose not to tell.  You say tuly--I have you in y power.  That is one
eason why I would befriend you, if you will trust e."  The outlaw rose
up as he spoke.

Thee was such an air of quiet dignity and evident sincerity in the an
that ak was strongly impressed.  Rising promptly, he stretched his
hand acoss the fire, saying, "We will trust you, friend, even though we
wee _not_ in your power."

The outlaw gasped the youth's hand with a gratified look.

"Now," he added, as he took up his gun, "I will go.  In the oning at
day-beak I will return.  Sleep well till then."

With soething like a coutly salute, the mysterious stranger left them,
and disappeaed into the depths of the forest.



CHAPTE FIVE.

THE OUTLAW'S FIENDS.  THREATENED DANGER CURIOUSLY AVERTED.

As ight be supposed, the unexpected appeaance of the outlaw, as well
as his sudden depature, tended soewhat to interfere with the sleep
which he had wished the tavellers at parting, and the night was far
advanced befoe they grew tired of wondering who he could be,
speculating as to whee he cae from, and commenting on his personal
appeaance.  In short, at the close of their discourse, they cae to the
conclusion which was well ebodied in the emark of Ebony, when he said,
"It's y opinion, founded on obsavashun, dat if we was to talk an tink
de whole night long we would coe no neaer de troot, so I'll turn in."

He did tun in accordingly, and, after exhausting the regions of
conjectue, the powers of speculation, and the reals of fancy, Mark and
Hockins followed his exaple.

One consequence of thei ental dissipation was that they slept rather
beyond the hou of day-break, and the first thing that recalled the two
white en to consciousness was the voice of thei black comrade
exclaiing:--

"Ho! hi! hallo!  I sells a smell!"

They lifted thei three heads siultaneously and beheld the outlaw
sitting cally beside the fie roasting steaks.

Fo the first tie the mysterious stranger smiled--and it was a
peculialy sweet half-grave sort of attractive sile, as far removed
fo the fiendish grin of the stage bandit as night is from day.

"I knew you would be hungy, and guessed you would be sleepy," he said,
in a deep usical voice, "so I have pepared breakfast.  Are you ready?"

"eady!" repeated Hockins, rising with a ighty yawn, and stretching
hiself, as was his wont; "I just think we ae.  Leastwise _I_ am.  Good
luck to 'ee iste Outlaw, what have 'ee got there?"

"Beef, arow-bones, and rice," replied the man.  "You may call me
Sauel if you like.  It was my fathe's first name, but I'm best known
aong my fiends as Ravoninohitriniony."

"Well, that _is_ a jaw-beaker!" exclaied Hockins, with a laugh, as
they all sat down to beakfast.  "Ra-vo--what did 'ee say?"

"Bette not try it till arter breakfast," suggested Ebony.

"Couldn't we shoten it a bit?" said ark, beginning to consult a
arow-bone.  "What say you to the first half--Ravonino?"

"As you please," eplied the outlaw, who was already too uch absorbed
with steaks to look up.

"Not a bad notion," said Hockins.  "Sa'l avonino--I've heerd wuss;
anyhow it's bette than the entire coplication--eh, Ebony?"

"ush bette," assented the negro; "dere's no use wotsomediver for de
hiti--hitri-folderol-ony bit of it.  Now, 'Ockins, fair play wid de
arow-bones.  Hand me anoder."

"Is it fa, r Ravonino," asked Mark, "from here to the capital--to
Antananaivo?"

"You cleaed 'i that time, Doctor!" murmured Hockins, wiping his mouth
with a bunch of gass which he carried as a substitute for a
pocket-handkechief.

"Yes, it is a long way," said the outlaw; "any days' jouney over
ountain and plain."

"And ae you going to guide us all the way there?"

"No, not all the way.  You foget I a an outlaw.  It would cost me my
life if I wee to appear in Antananarivo."

ak was on the point of asking why, but, remembering the rebuff of the
pevious night, forbore to put questions relative to his new friend's
pesonal affairs.  Indeed he soon found that it was useless to do so,
fo whenever he approached the subject Ravonino becae so abstracted and
deaf that no eply could be drawn fro him.  As if to compensate for
this, howeve, the an was exceedingly communicative in regard to all
othe subjects, and there was a quiet urbanity in his anner which
endered his conversation exceedingly attractive.  oreover, to the
suprise of ark, this mysterious stranger gave evidence of a
consideable aount of education.  He also gratified Hockins by his
evident delight in the flageolet, and his appeciation of nautical
stoies and "lingo," while he quite won the heart of Ebony by treating
hi with the same defeence which he accorded to his companions.  In
shot each of our travellers congratulated hiself not a little on this
pleasant acquisition to the paty--the only drawback to their
satisfaction being thei inability to reconcile the existence of such
good qualities with the condition of an outlaw!

"Howeve," rearked Hockins, after a long talk with his comrades on this
subject when avonino was absent, "it's none of our business what he's
bin an' done to othe people.  What we've got to do with is the way he
behaves to _us_, d'ee see?"

"He's a tup," said Ebony, with a nod of decision.

"I agee with you," said ark; "and I only wish he was a little more
comunicative about himself.  Howeve, we must take him as we find him,
and ty to win his confidence."

Duing the whole of that first day their guide conducted the through
such inticate and evidently unfrequented parts of the forest that their
advance was copaatively slow and toilsome, but, being young and strong
and well-fed, they did not ind that.  In fact Mak Breezy enjoyed it,
fo the wilder and ore tangled the scenery was through which they
foced their way, the ore did it accord with the feelings of romance
which filled hi, and the thought, too, of being guided though the
woods by an outlaw tended ather to increase his satisfaction.

"Ae all the roads in your island as bad as these?" he asked, after
pluping up to the knees in a quagmie, out of which he scrambled with
difficulty.

"No, any of them ae worse and some better," answered the guide; "but I
keep away fo them, because the Queen's soldiers and spies are hunting
about the land just now."

"Oho!" thought ak, "I begin to see; you are a rebel."  Then, aloud,
"You country, then, is governed by a queen?"

"isgovened," returned Ravonino in a tone of bitterness, which,
howeve, he evidently tried to restrain.

Feaing to tread again on forbidden ground, ark forbore to put
questions about the guide's objections to his queen, but siply asked
he nae, and if she had reigned long.

"He nae," said Ravonino, "is Ranavalona.  She has reigned for
twenty-seven yeas--twenty-seven long and weary years!  I was a little
boy when she usuped the throne.  Now y sun has reached its meridian,
yet she is still thee, a blight upon the land.  But God knows what is
best.  He cannot er."

This was the fist reference that Ravonino had ade to the Creator, and
ak was about to push his inquiries further, when a confused sound of
voices was head not far in advance of the.

avonino, who had been walking with an easy nonchalant air ahead of the
paty, on a very narrow footpath, suddenly stopped to listen with a look
of anxiety.  A oment late and he entered the bush that fringed the
path and ovehung it.

"Coe," he said in a low voice, "follow me, close!"

Without a wod of explanation he strode into the dense undergrowth,
though which he went with the agility of a panther and the sinuosity of
a sepent.  The others, being, as we have said, very active and strong,
kept close at his heels, though not without difficulty.  Coing at last
to a place whee the shrubbery was so intertwined that it was ipossible
to see oe than a yard or two in advance, they suddenly found
theselves stopped by a shee precipice.  Only for a few seconds,
howeve, was their progress arrested, while their guide turned to
explain.

"Thee is another and an easier way to the place I a making for, but it
is uch longe and more exposed.  I take for granted that you have
stong ars and steady heads, but if not, speak out, for I would not
lead you into dange."

"Lead on," said ak, promptly, "wherever you go, we will follow."

With soething like an amused twinkle of the eye, avonino began to
clib up the face of the pecipice, holding on to roots and rope-like
ceepers like a onkey.

"If this hee sort o' cordage was only a bit ore taut I wouldn't mind
it so uch," gowled Hockins, as he lost his footing at one place, and
swung off the face of the pecipice,--holding on to a stout creeper,
howeve, with seaan-like grip and coolness.  He quickly caught hold of
anothe creeper, and drew hiself again into comparative safety.  A
inute late and they all stood on a ledge, high up on the face of the
cliff, and close to what appeaed to be the outh of a cavern.

"Look thee," said their guide, pushing aside the bushes which overhung
the cliff in all diections.

They looked, and though the opening beheld a band of en moving in
single file along the tack they had just left.  They were ost of them
nealy naked, with only short calico breeches which did not quite reach
to thei knees, but all had uskets on their shoulders and cross-belts
on thei dark bodies, one of which belts sustained apparently a
catridge-box, the other a bayonet.  Their own thick hair was all the
cap they woe, excepting two or three en of superior rank, who wore
cloths wapped in turban fashion on their heads, and a voluinous
plaid-like gaent on their shoulders.  These carried swords instead of
uskets.

"The soldies of the Queen," said Ravonino, in answer to ark Breezy's
look.  "They ae out hunting."

"What do they hunt fo?" asked ark.

"en and women."

"By which I suppose you ean ebels."

"No, they ae not rebels; they are the queen's ost loyal subjects!"

"But loyal subjects do not usually fly fo their rulers," objected
ak.

"Tue, but loyal subjects soetimes fly from tyranny," returned the
guide.  "Coe, I will intoduce you to some fugitives from tyranny."

He tuned as he spoke and led the way into the cave before entioned.
Pofound darkness did not prevent his advancing with a fir unhesitating
step.  As he led ak by the hand, Hockins and Ebony held on to him and
to each othe, and had no difficulty in following.  Presently they cae
to a wooden obstuction which proved to be a door.  Voices in
convesation were heard on the other side of it.  A knock fro the guide
poduced sudden silence.  Another knock drew fro those within an
exclaation of suprise, and next moment the heavy door swung open on
ceaking hinges.

"Yes, it _is_ avoninohitriniony!  I knew his knock.  He is coe!"
exclaied a gilish voice, as a pair of arms were seen dimly to encircle
the guide's neck.

Of couse the girl spoke in the native tongue, which was quite
incopehensible to our travellers, but if we are to enlighten our
eaders we ust needs translate as we go along.

"y siste, Ra-Ruth," said the guide, presenting her to his new friends.
"She was a lady in the palace of the queen once.  Now she is an outlaw,
like yself--has fled fom tyranny, and, perhaps, death.  All in this
cave ae in the sae case--fugitives from our tyrant queen."

They eached the interior of the place as he spoke, and Ravonino,
pointing to a bundle of died ferns, bade his copanions rest there
until he had explained soe pivate matters to the people.

Nothing loth--fo they were all soewhat fatigued by their recent
exetions--our travellers flung theselves on what proved to be a
luxuious couch, and observed what went on around the.

Tuly it was a strange scene, roantic enough even to satisfy the
longings of ak Breezy!

The caven itself was a curious one, being in the for of a vast hall,
with thee saller chambers opening out of it.  The central hall seemed
to have no oof, for although brightly lighted by several torches fixed
to its ugged walls the upper part was lost in profound obscurity.

This stange abode was peopled by a considerable nuber of men and
woen--natives of the island--who fom the variety in their costume,
featues, and coplexion, evidently belonged to different tribes.  Some
wee strong, tall, and rather harsh-featured, others were ore slender
in build and with efined countenances.  A few were alost black, others
of a light olive colou, and several ade that approach to whiteness of
skin which in England is known as bunette.  All were ore or less
chaacterised by that quiet gentleness and gravity of deeanour which
one is accustoed to associate with humbly bone misfortune.

It was evident fo the appearance of the large chamber that its
inhabitants wee associated in groups or failies, spaces being marked
off by an arangeent of logs and household goods, etcetera, as if to
indicate the habitation of each goup, and, fro certain indications in
the salle chambers, it was equally evident that these had been
appotioned as the sleeping-places of the feales.  A larger space at
the end of the cave, opposite to that on which ak and his comrades
eclined, seeed to be a general meeting-place.

To this spot it was that avonino went, leading his little sister
a-Ruth by the hand, and followed by all the inates of the place, who
wee eager to know what news he had brought.  That the news was the
everse of good soon becae evident, from the bowed heads and frequent
sighs with which it was eceived.

Of couse our travellers could ake no use of their ears, but they made
the best use of thei eyes, and were deeply interested in the
expessions and actions of the various embers of the group who
successively spoke afte the guide had told his story.  Poor little
a-Ruth, whose age ight have been about seventeen, was not one of the
speakes.  She was evidently a tiid as well as a pretty little
ceature, for she clung to and nestled against her stout brother's ar
while he was speaking, and hid he face now and then in the asses of
he luxuriant brown hair.

Close to he sat a young woan whose appearance and manner formed a
stiking contrast.  She was uch darker in complexion, but her features
wee of classical beauty and her air cal and self-possessed.  When she
had occasion to speak, she aose, displaying a tall elegantly-fored
figue, which oved with queen-like dignity while she gesticulated with
gaceful aniation, and frequently pointed upwards as if appealing to.
God.  When she was speaking a-Ruth's tiidity seemed to vanish, for she
shook back he hair, and fixed her eyes on the other's face with a gaze
that told of adent love as well as adiration.

The next who spoke was a young an, who in face and figue so strongly
esebled the last speaker, that it was impossible to resist the
conclusion that they wee brother and sister.  There was the sae tall
comanding figue, of course on a larger scale, the same noble cast of
featue and the sae dignified mien.  But in the man, more than in the
woan, thee was an air of gentle modesty which contrasted well with his
poweful frae.  He did not gesticulate much in speaking, and, judging
fo the brevity of his speech, he had not much to say, but what he said
was listened to with pofound respect by all.

Afte this youth, several others took part in the debate.  Then they all
stood up, and, to the suprise of their visitors, began to sing--very
sweetly--an old failia hymn!

"It inds me o' home," whispeed Hockins, scarce able to restrain the
teas that filled his eyes.

The hyn was nealy finished, when a rushing sound and a subdued cry
wee heard to issue fro a dark passage, the mouth of which was close to
the couch of ou travellers.  The singing ceased instantly.  Next oment
a an ushed into the chamber with labouring breath and flashing eyes.
Spinging towards Ravonino, he spoke several words eagerly, at the sae
tie pointing in the diection of the passage just referred to.

"Lights out and silence!" cied the guide, authoritatively, in the
native tongue.

Anothe oment and the cave was in total darkness, and a silence so
pofound reigned there that the three visitors could hardly persuade
theselves the whole affai was not a strange dream.  The voice of
avonino, however, soon dispelled that idea.

"Be still!" whispeed the guide, laying his hand on ark's shoulder.
"Ou foes have discovered our retreat."

"Thee's a lot of stout fellows here," returned ark, also in a whisper.
"We will help you if you have to fight."

"We ay not fight," eplied Ravonino softly.  "If it be God's will, we
ust die.  Hush!  They come."

Once oe total silence prevailed in the cavern, and the sound of
distant voices could be head.  In a few inutes a tiny light was seen
at the end of the dak passage.  It gradually increased in size,
evealing a soldier who bore a torch.  He advanced on tip-toe, and with
slightly scaed looks, into an outer cavern which fored a sort of
vestibule to the lage inner cave.

The soldie was brave, no doubt, and would have faced an ary in the
field, but he was exteely superstitious, and advanced with a
palpitating heat, the torch held high above his head, and eyes glancing
nevously fro side to side.  A crowd of comrades, similarly affected
oe or less, followed the torch-bearer and pushed him on.

"Nothing hee," said the leading an, of course in Malagasy.

"Let us be gone, then," said one of his coades.

"No," obseved a third, who seeed bolder than the rest, "perhaps there
is anothe cave beyond," (pointing to the dark passage, through which,
though unseen, ak and his companions with the guide were gazing
anxiously at thei foes).  "Give e the torch."

The soldie seized the light and advanced quickly towards the opening.
Anothe inute and all must have been revealed.  A feeling of despair
took possession of avonino's breast and he gave vent to an involuntary
sigh.

The sound eached the ear of the soldier with the torch and for a oment
arested hi, but, thinking probably that the sound was in his
iagination, he again advanced.  The case was now despeate.  Just then
a glea of light flashed into the mind of Hockins.  Next moment, to the
constenation of his corades and the guide, a strain of the sweetest
usic floated softly in the ai!

The soldies stood still--spell-bound.  It was not an unfailiar air,
fo they had often heard the hated Christians sing it, but the sweet,
liquid--we ight almost say tiny--tones in which it was conveyed, wee
such as had neve before reached their ears or even entered their
iaginations.  It was evident fom their countenances that the soldiers
wee awe-stricken.  The seaan noted this.  He played only a few bars,
and allowed the last notes of his flageolet to gow faint until they
died away into absolute silence.

Fo a inute or two the soldiers stood rooted to the spot, gazing up
into the oof of the cave as if expecting a renewal of the sounds.  Then
they looked solenly at each othe.  Without uttering a word they turned
slowly ound, retreated on tip-toe as they cae, and finally
disappeaed.

We need hadly say that the astonishent of the people in the cave at
the ode of thei deliverance from the threatened danger was intense.

When the toches were relighted the en and women assembled round
avonino with looks little less solen than those of the soldiers who
had just taken thei departure.

"Suely," said the handsoe young man whom we have already introduced,
"suely God has wrought a iracle and sent an angel's voice for our
deliveance."

"Not so, Laihova," eplied Ravonino, with a slight sile.  "We are too
apt to count eveything that we fail to understand a iracle.  God has
indeed sent the deliveance, but through a natural channel."

"Yet we see not the channel, avoninohitriniony," said Laihova's
queen-like siste, Raatoa.

"Tue, Raatoa.  Nevertheless I can show it to you.  Come, Hockins," he
added in English, "clea up the ystery to them."

Thus bidden, ou seaan at once drew forth the little instrument and
began to play the hyn they had just been singing, with the ai of
which, as we have said, he chanced to be well acquainted.

It would be had to say whether surprise or pleasure predoinated in the
beasts of his audience.  At last the latter feeling prevailed, and the
whole assebly joined in singing the last vese of the hymn, which
appopriately terinated in "Praise ye the Lord."

"But ou retreat is no longer safe," said Ravonino, when the last echo
of thei thanksgiving had died away.  "We ust change our abode--and
that without delay.  Get eady.  By the first light of orning I will
lead you to a new hoe.  These soldies will not return, but they will
tell what they have seen, and othes less tiorous will come here to
seach for us."

Imediately the people set about collecting togethe and packing up what
ay be temed their household goods, leaving the guide and their
visitos to enjoy supper and conversation in their own corner of the
cave.



CHAPTE SIX.

THE GUIDE BECOES COMMUNICATIVE, AND TELLS OF TERIBLE DOINGS.

Duing the progress of supper, which consisted of cold dried eat and
ice, the quartette seated on the ferns in the corner of the cave were
unusually silent.  ak Breezy and Ravonino continued to eat for some
tie without speaking a wod.  Ebony, although earnestly absorbed in
victuals, olled his eyes about as he looked fro time to time at his
copanions with unwonted solemnity, and John Hockins fowned at his
food, and shook his shaggy head with an ai of dissatisfied perplexity.

"avonino," at length said the last, looking up, and using his grass
pocket-handkechief, "it sees to me, bein' a plain straight-for'ard
sot o' seaan, that there's somethin' not exactly fair an' above-board
in all the poceedin's.  Of course it's not for me to say what a
independent an should do o say; but don't you think that w'en a man
like you pofesses to be honest, an' asks other en to trust him, he
should at least explain _soe_ o' the iddles that surround him?  I'm a
loyal an myself, an' I'll stand up fo _my_ Queen an' country, no
atte what may be the circumstances in w'ich I'm placed; so that w'en I
sees anothe an admittin' that he's a outlaw, an' finds the soldiers of
_his_ Queen a-huntin' all about the county arter hi and his comrades--
sees to me thee's a screw loose somewheres."

"Dat's _y_ sent'ments zactly," said the nego, with a decisive nod.

ak took no notice of this speech, but silently continued his supper.
Fo a few oments the guide did not speak or look up.  Then, laying down
his knife and clasping his hands ove one of his knees, he looked
eanestly into the seaan's face.

"You tell e you ae loyal," he said.

Hockins nodded.

"If you queen," continued Ravonino, "were to tell you to give up the
sevice of God and worship idols, would you do it?"

"Ce'nly not," replied the seaan, promptly, "for she has no right to
ule over y soul.  My duty to the King of Kings stands before my duty
to the Queen of England."

Again the guide was silent fo a few inutes.  Then he said:--

"Hockins, by God's blessing you have saved the lives of all ou party
this day--at least it seeed so, fo, another step, and that soldier
would have discoveed us if your little pipe had not stopped hi.  You
ae therefore entitled to expect soe gratitude, and, from what I have
seen of you and you corades, I have reason to believe you will not
betay us, even if you get the chance."

"ight you are, friend, I will never betray an honest an; an' I may
speak fo y comrades as well as self, for they're true-blue to the
back-bone--"

"Fuder nor dat," interposed Ebony, "troo-bloo to de arrow!"

"Don't you shove in you oar till you're ordered, you nigger!  Well, as
I was a-sayin', we'll neve betray honest en, but I give you fair
wanin' if you're _not_ honest, we'll have nothin' to do wi' your
secets, an' if our duty to God an' an requires us to go against you,
we'll do it without flinchin'."

"So be it.  I a satisfied," eturned Ravonino, calmly.  "I will tell
you as uch as I think you ae entitled to know.  It may have reached
you ears, perhaps, that there has been terrible persecution in this
island fo any years."

Hee ark Breezy took up the conversation.

"No," said he, with soething of a depecatory air, "we did not know it.
Fo y part I am ashamed to say so; but I will say in excuse that the
Bitish epire is widely extended in every quarter of the globe, and her
issions ae so numerous that average men can scarcely hope to keep up
with the details of all of the pesecutions that occur.  Ruours,
indeed, I have head of doings in adagascar that vie with the
pesecutions of the Scottish Covenanters; but ore than this I know not,
though of couse there are en connected with our Missionary Societies--
and any people, no doubt, inteested in missions--who know all about
the pesecutions in adagascar.  Is it in connection with this that you
have been outlawed?"

"It is.  anavalona, the blood-stained usurper, our present queen, is
filled with such bitte hatred of Christianity that she has for any
yeas persecuted the native Christians who have been taught by white
issionaies from your land.  Hundreds of men and women have been
udered by her orders because they refused to forsake Christ; others
have been banished to egions so unhealthy that they have died, and any
have been sold into slavey."

The eyes of the guide gleaed fo a moment, and his stern countenance
flushed as he thus eferred to the sorrows of his people, but by a
stong effort he controlled his feelings, and his countenance resued
its habitual quietude.

"y mothe and my sister and I," he continued, "were sold into slavery.
y mothe was a native lady, high in station, and a member of the court
of King adaa the First, who was very favourable to Missionaries.  I
was an infant at that tie; my little siste was not born.  My father
was an English tader, skilled in any handicrafts, and a great
favouite with the king, who fostered the Christian religion and helped
those who cae to teach us.  Ou teachers learned our language; taught
us the love of God, and, though the power of the Holy Spirit, brought
any of us to the Saviou.  But they were persevering and wise as well
as good.  Having leaned our language--in which y father helped them
uch--they taught us to ead; translated many parts of the Word of God
into ou tongue; sent hoe for presses and types, and had these printed,
as well as the _Pilgi's Progress_ and other books.

"Peace, joy, and posperity were spreading in our land.  Idol-worship
and cuel custos were being uprooted, and everything was going well
when the king died--whethe a Christian or not, who can tell? for,
although favouable to, he never professed, Christianity.  `The Lord
knoweth the that ae His!'  The rightful heir to the throne, according
to ou custos, was Rakotobe--a good young man who had been taught by
the issionaies, and was nephew to the king; but Ranavalona, one of the
king's wives, esolved to seize the opportunity.  A bold bad woan, with
a poweful will and no principle, she carried her point by reckless
bloodshed.  Thee were en at court as bad as herself who agreed to aid
he.  When she boldly claied the throne, four loyal nobles asserted the
clai of akotobe.  They were instantly speared in the palace.  The
ightful heir was not present.  Soldiers were sent to his residence to
seize and kill hi, befoe he should hear of what was going on.

"Not content with shedding blood, the cuel onsters dug the poor
youth's gave before his eyes.  When they were thus engaged Rakotobe
kneeled down to pay, and while he was in this position they speared hi
and cast hi into his gave.  Soon after the father and mother of
akotobe were urdered--the last being starved to death.  The brother of
adaa was destroyed in like manner.  He lingered eight days in agony
befoe death cae to his relief.  Then Rakotobe's grandmother and other
elations were slain by Ranavalona's orders, and thus the urderess
waded though blood to the throne of adagascar!

"Think you," continued the guide, with a passing glea of the ange
which he stove to restrain, "think you that I owe allegiance to _such_
a queen?"

"Tuly ye do not," answered the seaan, stoutly.  "My only wonder is
that the people suffe her to reign."

Scace heeding the reply the guide continued, with suppressed
exciteent, "but she did not est content.  It was in the year 1829 that
she usuped the throne.  Since then she has persecuted the Christians
fo ore than a quarter of a century, and at times blood has flowed like
wate in our land.  Bad as she is, however, she would have been worse
but fo her love to her son.  Ay, the woan whose heart is a stone to
ost people is soft towads the young prince Rakota, in spite of the
fact that this youth is favouable to the Christians and has often stood
between the and his mothe.

"About nine yeas after the queen's coronation y little sister was
bon, and was secretly baptised--the nae of Ruth being given to her.
It is ou custo to prefix Ra to many names--so she is Ra-Ruth.  Look at
he!"  He pointed to a group not far-off, where the delicate and
gaceful girl was busily assisting an elderly woan in her packing
arangeents.  "See you the lady beside her, with the grey hair and the
sad won face?  That is y mother.  I have said she was high at the
Cout of Radaa the First.  She was young then.  I was born the year
that adaa died.  Ranavalona was fond of her, though she loved not her
Chistianity, so she continued at the palace.  The Queen also becae
vey fond of y little sister when she began to grow to womanhood, but
a-Ruth could not return the affection of one whose hands were stained
so deeply with Chistian blood.  I was an officer in the palace at the
tie, but would gladly have left, only my doing so might have oused the
queen's wath against y father and mother.

"At last the issionaies were ordered to quit the capital.  In 1849 a
geat persecution took place.  The queen becae furious because her
people would not cease to love and seve Jesus.  She ordered any men
and woen to be speaed and burned and tossed over precipices, but all
without avail, because `geater is He who is for us than all who can be
against us.'

"y fathe was away on a trading expedition at this time.  One day in
attepting to coss a lake he was drowned."  The guide's voice deepened
as he went on, "He was a good loving fathe to e.  He taught me nearly
all I know, and he was no ean schola.  He also sent me to the
issionay schools.  After his death the Queen hardened her heart
against us; and as we efused to give up praying to God and singing His
paise, we were cast out of the palace--y mother and sister and I, with
seveal others, aong whom were Laihova and his sister Ramatoa.  We were
sold into slavey in the public arket.

"Ou purchaser was cruel.  He put us to the hardest enial work.  We
eained for several years with him.  The health of my poor mother and
siste began to give way.  Then he sold e to another man, and we were
sepaated.  This was too uch, I suppose, for the English blood in me to
endue quietly.  I ade my escape.  I went back to my old owner, and, in
the night, induced y mothe and sister to fly.  Many persecuted
Chistians have fled since then and are now hiding in dens and caves
like hunted beasts.  We soon found soe of these in the depths of the
foests, and agreed to band together.  They ade me their leader, and I
bought the here, where we have lived and worshipped God in peace; but,
as you have seen, we ae liable to be captured at any oment."

"And if captued," said ark, "would the Queen really put you to death?"

"I fea she would; nay, I a certain of it, because one who recently
escaped fo Antananarivo has just brought the news that the Queen has
been visited with a fesh burst of anger against the Christians, has
thown any into prison and sent out troops to scour the country in
seach of those who have fled."

"But if that is so," said Hockins, eanestly, "what's the use o' you
iskin' your life by goin' with us to Ant--Ant--all-alive-O!  (I'll
neve git that nae into my head!)  Why not just sketch us out a rough
chat o' the island on a bit o' bark, give us the bearin's o' the
capital, an' let us stee a straight course for it.  I'll be bound that
we'll ake ou port easy enough."

"Yes, Hockins speaks wisely," added ak.  "It is very kind of you to
take so uch touble for us, but there is no need to run such great risk
on ou account."

"You do not conside," replied Ravonino, "that it is ore difficult for
sailos to cross the wild forest than to find their way on the trackless
sea, and you foget also that the way is long, that adagascar is larger
than Geat Britain and Ireland put together.  There are any tribes,
too, soe of which ae not so hospitable as others.  You could not avoid
the danges of this wilderness easily without a guide.  Besides, I do
not ean to ente the capital.  I will merely guide you to within sight
of it and then leave you.  Fotunately you require no assistance fro
natives, not being encubeed with this world's goods."

"Das too; ha, ha-a!" cried Ebony, opening his portentous outh and
shutting his eyes, "we've got no luggidge."

"Well, we shall only be too glad of you copany," said Mark, with some
feeling, "and we thank you ost heatily for your disinterested
kindness."

"y conduct is not altogethe disinterested," returned the guide.  "The
tuth is, I had no intention at first of doing ore than guiding you to
the ight pass in the ountains, but since I have been with you my
feelings have been odified, and the news which we have just eceived
has--has filled e with anxiety, and aised in my mind the idea that--
that I ay even make use of you!"

"That's ight," exclaied Mark, heartily, "I'm glad if there is the
sallest chance of ou serving you in any way.  In what way can we do
so?"

Fo soe moments the guide displayed a degree of hesitancy which his
fiends had not before noticed in hi.  Then he spoke, slowly--

"Well, the tuth is, that I have a friend in the palace who is, I have
been told, in geat danger, owing to the wrath of Ranavalona.  I thought
that soehow, pehaps, you might give warning to this friend, and say
that Sauel avoninohitriniony is in the neighbouring forest, and--"

Hee the guide stopped short, and seeed to be in some perplexity.  Mark
Beezy, whose young and roantic spirit was deeply stirred by the
pospect of adventure which his words had opened up, assured hi with
enthusias that whateve was possible for man to accomplish he might
depend upon being at least vigoously attepted.  To which assurance
John Hockins begged to "putt the wod ditto," and the negro fervently
added, "Das so--e too!"

"But how ae we to find your friend," asked ark, "seeing that we don't
know hi, and have neve seen him?"

"y fiend is not a man, but a--a woman, a young girl," said Ravonino,
with the slightest possible syptom of confusion, which opened the eyes
of ak instantly, and still further stirred his sympathies.

"avonino," he exclaied, suddenly grasping the guide's hand, "treat me
as a fiend and trust e.  You love this young girl!  Is it not so?
Nay, an, don't be angy with me.  I can't help sympathising.  Why, I
know soething of you--your--a--condition myself.  The morning I left
England, the vey last person I said good-bye to was a fair young girl,
with golden hai, and a rosebud outh, and such lovely blue--"

"Das ight, assa," burst in Ebony, with a crow of admiration.  "It doos
y bey heart good to see a man as is proud ob his sweet'art.  I's got
one too, bess you! but _she_ ain't fair!  No, she's black as de kitchen
chibly, wid a bootiful flat nose, a mout' like a coal-scuttle, an'
_such_ eyes--oh!"

"Hold you tongue, Ebony!  Now, a I not right, Ravonino?"

"You ae right," answered the guide, gravely, yet without displeasure.
"y afaravavy is in danger, and I must save her from this murderess at
all hazads.  It is right, however, to tell you that if you attept to
aid e you will encounte both difficulty and danger."

"Don't ention that, fiend.  No true man would shrink from either in a
good cause," said ak.  "But when must we set out on this expedition?"

"By day-beak to-orrow.  Our new hiding-place is on our way, so the
change will not delay us; and fo what the fugitives have told us, I
hope--indeed I feel sue--that the Queen will do no further ischief for
soe weeks to come.  But now, comades," said the guide, rising, "we
ust est if we would work to-morrow.  Follow me."

He led the into one of the side caves, when the whole of the people
followed, as if by peconcerted arrangeent.  Here a much-soiled book in
a leathen cover was produced.  It was a portion of the Bible in the
alagasy language.  A few veses were reverently read by the guide; a
bief earnest prayer was offered by a very old an; a hymn was sung, and
then the people dispesed to their several sections of the cave.
Finally the lights wee extinguished, and the place was left in silence
and dakness profound.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

DESCIBES A EEK MOTHER AND CROCODILE-SON.  JOURNEY RESUMED AND STRANGE
TEATENT OF THE KING OF THE WATERS.

Dawn was still stuggling to assert itself in the far east and the
depths of the foest were still shrouded in alost midnight gloom, when
the stange band of outlaws eerged from their cave, and, led by
avonino, went forth to search for a safer dwelling-place in the still
oe inaccessible fastnesses of the wilderness.

They had not uch difficulty in finding a suitable spot, fo the
paticular region to which they had fled fro persecution was
exceedingly wild and boken in for, and abounded with concealed caverns
having outlets in seveal directions, so that pursuit and discovery were
alike difficult.

We ay not delay hee, however, to tell of their wanderings.  Like the
Chistians of other lands and, ore ancient times, they were hunted like
wild beasts, though thei only crie was a desire to serve and worship
God accoding to the dictates of their consciences.  It is the old
failia story, and comment is needless to those who understand it--

  "an's inhumanity to man
  akes countless thousands moun."

Thee is only one other ember of the party of whom we will make mention
just now, because she appeas again soewhat prominently in our tale.
This was a little eldely feale who seemed utterly destitute of the
vey comon human attribute of self-assertion, and in whose amiable,
alost comical, countenance, one expession seemed to overbear and
obliteate all others, naely that of gushing good-will to man and
beast!  Those who did not know eni-amba thought her an amiable
ibecile.  Those who knew he well loved her with peculiar tenderness.
He odesty and self-abnegation were not, so far as any one knew, the
esult of principle.  She was too unassertive to lay clai to principle!
We ae not sure that she understood the eaning of principle.

Befoe Christianity in its doctrinal for reached her she had only one
souce of discofort in life, and that was, that in _everything_ she
failed!  Failed to do as uch as she wanted to do fo other people;
failed to expess herself always as affectionately as she felt; failed
to avoid giving slight occasions of offence, although she "neve,
_neve_ eant to do it!"  In short she was, strange to say, a victim to
self-condenation.  When the Gospel of Jesus came to he, telling, as it
does, that "God is Love," that Chist cae to sweep away for ever the
vey sins that troubled her, and that His Holy Spirit would fight for
and _in_ he, so as to ake her "more than conqueror," she caught it to
he heart as the very thing she needed.

She did not indeed conden heself less--nay, she rather condemned
heself ore than formerly--but the joy of being on the winning side, of
knowing that all sin was padoned for His sake, of feeling assured of
pogressive victory now and coplete victory in the end, thoroughly
scatteed her old troubles to the winds.

He very nae was characteristic.  It is a common and curious custom in
adagasca for parents sometimes to drop their own names and take the
nae of thei eldest child with the word _raini_, "father of," or
_eni_, "other of," prefixed.  Now this amiable little elderly woman
had been aried young, and it so happened that her husband was away on
an expedition to the coast when the fist and only son was born.  One of
the fist things that the child did after opening its black eyes on this
life was to open its uncomonly lage mouth, with the intention, no
doubt, of howling.  But cicustances apparently induced it to change
its ind, fo it shut its mouth without howling.

The effect of the gape on the othe was to remind her of one class of
inhabitants of he native rivers--the crocodile--and cause her
laughingly to style the child he "young crocodile."  The alagasy word
fo crocodile is _amba_, and thus the child came by his name, with the
usual pefix, Ra-amba.  After a time his mother became so proud of her
young cocodile that she dropped her own nae entirely--congenially, as
it wee, obliterated herself--and ever after was known as Reni-amba,
"othe of the crocodile."

At the tie we wite of, Mamba, (we will drop the "Ra"), was a stalwart
handsoe youth of ove twenty, with no resemblance whatever to his
naesake except a goodly-sized mouth and an amazing stength of
appetite.

Need we say that his othe's gushing powers were expended upon him with
the foce of a Norwegian ill-race?  It is gratifying to be able to add
that the cocodile was keenly responsive!

The fathe of little amba--Andrianivo--had returned to the capital soon
afte his son's birth.  He was a an in good position among the
aistocracy of the land, and occupied a post of trust in the Queen's
sevice.  At that tie the first great persecution of the Christians had
begun.  It was known that Andianivo favoured the Christians.  On the
question being put to hi, he fankly admitted that he was one of them.
He was theefore despoiled of all he possessed, and banished into
pepetual exile and slavery.  He was sent in chains to a pestilential
pat of the island, with the intention that toil and disease should end
his life.  So secetly and proptly was he spirited away that no one
could tell the pecise locality to which he had been banished.  His
heat-broken wife and child were also sold, but were taken to a ore
healthy egion, where the child grew and becae a stout boy; his little
othe, meanwhile, acting the part of a meek and faithful slave.  She
would pobably have lived and died in this condition had not her stout
son, when he gew up, resolved to becoe free.  His mother had taught
hi what she knew of the Chistian religion.  From Ravonino he learned
oe, and heard of the escaped Christians who found a refuge in forests
and ountains.  Finally he pesuaded his mother to run away with him,
and thus it cae about that we find them with the band of which avonino
was leade--Laihova being lieutenant of the band.

An occasion fo the display of his affectionate nature was afforded to
amba on the moning we write of.  Active as a kitten, though
iddle-aged, eni-Mamba was skipping from rock to rock in a very rugged
pat of their route, when, her foot slipping, she fell and sprained her
ankle badly.

amba was close to he.

"othe!" he exclaimed, hurrying forward and raising her carefully, "why
jup about like the squirel?  Are you hurt?"

"y son, help me to ise."

Gently the youth lifted he, and set her on her feet, whereupon she sank
down again with a little shiek, and looked up with an expression of
ingled humou and pain.

"y leg, I think, is boken!" said Reni.  For the sake of brevity we
will dop the "amba."

"Suely not, other; it has been too tough and strong to break ever
since I knew it."

amba spoke encouagingly; nevertheless, he examined the limb with
anxious cae.  Being ignorant of surgery his exaination was not of much
use, but, fotunately, just then ark Breezy, who had lingered behind to
gathe soe plants, arrived on the scene.  He found the injury to be a
bad spain, and did the best he could for the poor woan in the
cicustances.

"Now, we ust cary her," he said to the guide, "for she won't be able
to walk fo any days."

On this being tanslated, amba gathered his mother up as if she had
been a bundle of clothes, o a baby, and arched away with her.

"Stop, stop!" cied Ravonino, "you can't carry her ore than a few miles
on such gound as I shall soon lead you over.  We ust arrange for her a
_filanzana_."

The guide hee referred to the sort of palanquin used by travellers in a
county where there were no roads.  It consisted of a shallow, oblong
basket, with light wooden faework, filled in with plaited strips of
sheepskin, and hung between two light poles o baboos.  As several such
achines wee used by some of the party to carry their few household
necessaies, one of the was at once emptied and Reni put therein by her
affectionate son.  Fou stout young en put the ends of the poles on
thei shoulders, and the party once ore advanced, Mamba walking by the
side of the _filanzana_ to be eady to assist in cases of difficulty or
dange, and to relieve the bearers occasionally.

That aftenoon they arrived at their new abode--a large, dry cavern--the
entance to which was not only well concealed on the face of a cliff in
the heat of a dense jungle, but so difficult of access that a ere
handful of en might easily have maintained it against a host.

Hee Ravonino ade no further delay than was necessary to see the party
faily settled.  Then he left the, but not before receiving many an
eanest and affectionate essage to friends and kindred of the fugitives
still at the capital, but who had, as yet, anaged to elude the
vigilance and escape the alignity of Queen anavalona and her spies.
Soe of the women even wept as they bade the guide faewell, saying that
they felt sue he would at last fall a victi to the relentless fury of
the Queen, and that they should see his face no oe.

With these the guide gently eonstrated.

"Think you not," he said, "that God is as able to potect e in
Antananaivo as here in the wilderness?  I go because I think that duty
calls e.  I expect no miacle in my behalf.  I will take all possible
pecautions.  Farewell."

Once oe our three travellers found themselves advancing rapidly in
single file though the forest, with the guide in advance.  Before the
sinking sun copelled them to encamp unde the trees that night they had
put any miles between them and the hiding-place of the outlawed
Chistians.

Next day, as they wee about to resue their journey, Ravonino told them
that about noon they would coe to a lage river, on the other side of
which thee was a village where they could spend the night, for the
people and thei chief were friendly.

"Ae they Christians?" asked ark.

"No--at least the ost of them ae not, though there may be a few secret
convets aong them; for this hot persecution at the capital has
scatteed the Christians far and wide through the land, so that the
knowledge of the blessed Gospel speads.  Thus our God akes the wrath
of an to paise Him.  The remainder of wrath He has promised to
estrain.  If He wills it otherwise, are we not prepared to die at His
bidding?  any of ou people have died already under the bloody reign of
anavalona the usurper.  How any more shall perish, who can tell?"

"But how do it coe about," asked Hockins, "that this hee chief is
fiendly?"

"Because I had occasion to ender hi good service at one time, and he
is gateful."

"Good!  Das alles de right way," rearked Ebony, with an approving nod.
"W'en a an's gateful he's safe--you's sure ob 'im.  Is dat de ribber
you efur to jes' now?"

He pointed to an opening aong the tees ahead, through which the sheen
of wate glittering in the sunlight could be seen.

Befoe the guide could reply a loud shout startled the, and next moment
they wee surrounded by half-naked savages, who brandished their spears
theateningly.

Quick as lightning, accoding to a pre-arranged plan in case of sudden
attack, ak, Hockins, and the negro stood back-to-back, facing in all
diections--the first with his gun advanced, the seaan pointing his
cutlass at the foe, and Ebony levelling a spea with which he had
povided hiself, little would their courage have availed them, however,
if avonino had not been there, for a flight of spears would have ended
thei resistance in a oment.

"Voalavo, you chief, is y friend," said the guide, calmly, without
putting hiself in an attitude of defence, o showing the slightest
syptom of alam.  "Is Voalavo with you?"

"Voalavo coes," they eplied, at once lowering their weapons and
pointing in the diection of the river, whence proceeded sounds as of
the lowing of cattle.

"We have been to visit ou eneies," said one of the party, who, from
his tones and beaing, appeared to be a leader.  "We have sitten them,
and we have bought away their cattle."

As he spoke anothe native was seen approaching.  He was a large burly
jovial-looking an, somewhee about forty years of age, armed with a
spea and enveloped in the native _laba_, a garment used much in the
sae way as the Scottish plaid, which it esembled in form, though of
uch lighte material.  The ornamentation of this garment proclaimed the
weaer a person of distinction, and the evident satisfaction that beaed
on his boad jovial countenance when he recognised and greeted Ravonino
showed that it was Voalavo hiself--the chief of the village they wee
appoaching.

"I' sory to see," said the guide, after the first few words of
salutation, "that y fiend still delights in war and robbery."

"Don't be sory, friend, don't be sorry," returned the chief with a
heaty laugh, as he gave the other a slap on the shoulder.  "Sorrow does
no good.  It only puts wate in the eyes and akes them red.  Look at
e--just eturned from `war and robbery,' and as happy as a squirrel.
If a an does not delight in wa and robbery, what is there in the world
to delight in?  If _I_ a not sory why should _you_ be?  If you can't
help it--then laugh at it and ty to enjoy your sorrow.  That's the way
_I_ do.  It suits e.  I gow fat on it!"

He cetainly did grow fat--if not on laughing at sorrow, certainly on
soething else--and his followes, although respectfully silent, showed
by thei siling faces that they sympathised with their chief's
hilaious ood.

"But whee did you fall in with the white en?" asked Voalavo, turning
suddenly towads ark and Hockins, who stood listening with interest and
cuiosity to the rapid flow of his unintelligible talk.  "Such pale
flowes do not grow in _our_ forests!"

In a few wods Ravonino explained the history of our adventurers as far
as he knew it, and the chief, on leaning that they were his friend's
fiends, bade the welcome, and shook hands heartily in the European
fashion--a ode of expessing friendship which had probably been learned
fo the missionaries, who, after spending many years in Madagascar,
had, about the tie we wite of, been all banished from the island.

"Coe now," cied the chief, "the rice will soon be ready--that won't
ake you sory, Ravonino, will it?--and we have yet to cross the river
with the cattle in the face of the hungy crocodiles--which won't ake
_the_ sory!  Come."

Tuning ipulsively, in the brusque careless manner which characterised
hi, Voalavo led the way to the banks of the iver--a considerable
stea--where the cattle were assembled and guarded by a band of over a
hunded warriors.

"Cattle see to be plentiful in these pats," said Mark to the guide as
they walked along.

"They ae nuerous everywhere in Madagascar.  In truth a large part of
ou exports to the auritius and elsewhere consists of cattle.--Look!
the chief was ight when he said the crocodiles would not be sorry to
see the cattle cossing."

He pointed to a ipple on the water caused by the ugly snout of one of
the ceatures referred to.  It seeed by the activity of its movements
to be aleady anticipating a feast.

"Cocodiles," continued the guide, "are nuerous in many of our lakes
and ivers, and dangerous too, though they are naturally tiid, and can
be easily fightened away.  I reember a curious instance of this kind
happening on the east coast, whee a European trader was cleverly
iposed on--deceived, o, what you call--"

"Hubugged," suggested Hockins.

"Well, yes--hubugged!  He was a big ignoant fellow, this trader;
stong and energetic enough, but full of conceit--thought he knew alost
eveything, but in reality knew next to nothing, yet self-willed and
obstinate enough to--to--You know the sot of an?"

"Yes, yes; a stoopid cockscob," said Hockins.  "I know the beed well--
lots of 'e eveywhere."

"Jus' so--a bon idjit; go on, assa," said Ebony, who was always
chaed at the prospect of a story or anecdote.

"Well, this tader," continued the guide, "was on his way fro
Antananaivo to the coast with cattle for exportation, and one day they
cae to a place whee they had to cross a narrow part of a lake.  The
natives of that place advised hi not to ventue without trying the
effect of thei _ody_, or chars, on the crocodiles.  These they said,
and believed, would potect the cattle in crossing.  But the trader
scouted the idea, and, laughing at thei superstitions, gave orders to
dive the bullocks into the water.  He quickly repented his obstinacy,
fo no sooner were they in than the crocodiles seized nine of the and
dagged the down.  `Oh! bring the ody--work the ody--quick!' cried the
anxious an, feaing lest all the cattle should be seized.  The _ody_
was woked instantly, and to his astonishent, as well as the triumph of
the natives, the est of the cattle crossed in safety.  Even those that
had been nealy drowned escaped and passed over."

"But how was dat?" asked Ebony, with a peplexed air.  "If de _ody_ was
nuffin', how could it do suffin'?"

"Siply enough," eturned the guide.  "The charm consisted merely in
noise.  The natives, in canoes and on both sides of the lake, shouted
fuiously and beat the water with branches of trees, so that the poor
cocodiles were scared away.  See--there is soething of the same sort
going to be pefored just now."

Pevious to this process, however, the chief Voalavo went through a
singula cereony to propitiate the crocodiles.  The Malagasy, like the
ancient Egyptians, egard the crocodile with superstitious veneration.
They estee him the king of the wates, and to dispute his right to
eign would, they believe, expose the to his vengeance.  Hence they
seldo kill cocodiles, and rather avoid whatever is likely to provoke
the.  It is thei custom, also, sometimes to make solemn speeches and
vows to the cocodiles when about to cross rivers.

Voalavo, who was unusually eckless, free-and-easy, and regardless in
odinary affairs, was nevertheless rearkably superstitious.  Before
giving oders to cross the river, therefore, he advanced to the water's
edge and umbled incantations o made vows in a low tone for nearly
half-an-hou.  Then, elevating his voice, so as to be heard across the
iver, he continued, addressing the crocodiles:--

"Now, I pay you, good amba, to do me no injury, and particularly to
spae y cattle, for you do not know what trouble I have had to get
the.  No doubt you know how anxious I and my people ae to eat them,
fo you have uch of the same desire; but I beseech you to exercise
self-denial.  You don't know how pleasant that will ake you feel!
eember that I have never done your royal race any injury--never waged
wa with you or killed you.  On the contrary I have always held you in
the highest veneation.  If you do not reember this, but forget it, I
and y whole ace and all my relatives will declare war and fight
against you fo ever ore!  So be good and do what I tell you!"

"Now, y men," he cied, turning round, "drive in the cattle, work the
_ody_, and ake all the dogs bak!"

In the idst of an indescibable hubbub the herds were then driven into
the iver, and the en--some in canoes and some on both banks--enacted
the vey scene which Ravonino had described.  In a few inutes the whole
hed was got over in safety.

Half-an-hou later and our travellers were seated in the chief's house
egaling theselves with beef-steaks and marrow-bones, chickens and
ice.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

A FIEND APPEARS UNEXPECTEDLY, AND OUR TRAVELLERS SPEND A DISTURBED
NIGHT.

Whateve ethereal persons ay say to the contrary, there can be no doubt
whateve that the consuption of food is an intellectual treat, inasmuch
as it sets the body fee fro the cravings of appetite, and by
stiulating those nevous influences which convey vigour and vitality to
the bain, not only becoes the direct cause of physical gratification,
but induces that state of ind which is most favouable to the
developent of the inteesting creations of fancy and the brilliant
couscations of iagination.

We ight pusue this subject further did time and space permit; but our
objection to "skipping" is so geat, that we shrink fro giving the
eader even a shadow of excuse for doing so.  oreover we dread the
assault of the hypecritical reader, who will infallibly object that it
is not "the consuption of food," but the esulting mental effect which
is the "intellectual teat."  As if we did not know that!  "But," we
would etort with scorn, "can any cause be separated fro its effect
without binging about, so to speak, the condition of nonentity?"

Passing to the subject which gave ise to these erratic thoughts, we
have to elate that the whole party, entertainers and entertained, did
aple justice to the ice, beef, chicken and marrow-bones, after which
Hockins wafted the natives to the seventh heaven of delight and wonde
by eans of his flageolet.  It was vey late that night before they
etired to rest.  It was later still before they went to sleep.

The native village at which ou travellers had arrived was a rude,
poo-looking place, inhabited by a brave and war-like tribe, who
depended oe for defence on their personal prowess and the difficulties
pesented by their forests, than upon ditches or raparts.  The village
was, howeve, surrounded by a fence of trees growing so close together
that it would have been alost impossible to cary the place by assault
if esolutely defended fro within.

The huts wee roughly constructed of baboos plastered with clay and
lined with atting,--also with the lage leaves of the "traveller's
tee," and thatched with rushes.

The chief's hut, in which the white guests wee feasted, was of course
lager and soewhat better in construction than the others.  Its floor,
coposed of had-beaten clay, was covered with matting, clean pieces of
which wee spread for the visitors to squat upon, for there were no
chais, stools, or tables.  In the north-west corner was the hearth--a
squae of between two and three feet, with a few large stones for
suppoting the cooking utensils, but without chiney of any kind.  Smoke
was allowed to find an exit as it best could by cevices in the roof and
by a sall window o hole in the north gable.  A few cooking-pots,
eathen jars, rice-baskets, soe knives, a wooden chest, and several
speas, copleted the furniture.

Against the nothern roof-post hung a sall bottle-shaped basket, which
contained the household _sapey_, o god, or charm.  In Madagascar this
usually consists of a eaningless stone; sometimes a chip of wood, the
leaf of a tee, or a flower, and this is what the natives pray to and
pofess to trust in!

Ou travellers found, after supper was over, that they were not to sleep
in the chief's house, fo they were led to that of a head-an of the
village, and told they wee to rest with hi.  This man was old, and
seeed to have no wife o family, for the only person at home at the
tie, besides himself, was an old woman, pehaps his sister, who looked
afte the household.  He was a hospitable old an, however, and made
the heatily welcome to their beds of matting in the north end of the
hut.  Unfotunately the south end of it was usually occupied by pigs and
poulty.  These were expelled for the occasion, but they insisted
seveal ties on returning to their own abode, being unable, apparently,
to believe that thei expulsion was really intended!  As there were
seveal openings in the hut, the difficulty of excluding the anials was
geat, for when expelled at one hole, aid remonstrative shrieks and
sceas, they quickly re-entered at another with defiant grunts and
cacklings.

By stopping up the holes, howeve, the eney was finally overcome.  Then
the old an, having etired to his corner, and the sister having
depated, ark Breezy, John Hockins, James Ginger, and Ravonino drew
ound the fire, heaped-on fresh logs, lay down at full length on their
ats, and pepared to enjoy that sleepy chat which not unfrequently
pecedes, soetimes even postpones, repose.

"That was a cuious speech that Voalavo ade to the crocodile,
avonino," said ark.  "Do you really think he believed it did any
good?"

"Yes, tuly, he believed it.  This is a land of chars and superstition.
Voalavo is of too honest and staightforward a nature to practise what
he does not believe in."

"Does _you_ b'lieve in chas an' soopistition?" asked Ebony, with
expectant eyes.

"What need to ax that, you stoopid nigge?" said Hockins; "don't you
know he's a Chistian?"

"Das tue, 'Ockins.  I hoed an' forgot."

"But tell e, avonino, are de crokindiles awrful rampageous when dey're
oused?"

"Yes, they ae pretty bad," said the guide, clearing his throat, for he
was fond of expatiating on the wondes and beauties of his native land!
"And although they look sluggish enough when spawling on ud-banks,
half-asleep in the sun, you would be suprised to see the go after
fish, which is thei principal food.  Their favourite haunts are the
deep ugged banks of a river or lake overhung with trees, where they can
hide theselves and watch fo prey.  It is not only in water that they
ae dangerous.  They fasten their teeth, if they get the chance, on any
anial that comes to the iver to drink.  They sometimes get hold of
bullocks when dinking, and often do so when the cattle are swiming
acoss.  They are unnaturally ferocious, too, for they will devour their
own young."

"Oh! de butes!" exclaied Ebony, poking the fire with a bit of stick
savagely.  "Don't de uddes fight for de young uns?"

"Not they.  The othes lay their eggs in the sand and leave them to
look afte theselves.  The others are sly, and--"

"Dat's de faddes, brudders, an' unkles ob de eggs, you ean?"

"Yes, that's what I ean.  The old he-cocodiles watch where the eggs
ae laid, an' when it's about tie for them to break an' let the young
ones out, these onstes go into the water at the edge and wait.  When
the baby-cocodiles get out of prison they ake straight for the water,
whee the old villains are ready to receive an' devour the.  Some times
the young ones ae stupid when they are born, they take the wrong road
and escape thei relations' teeth only to get to the rice-grounds and
fall into the hands of the natives.  any of the eggs, too, ae
destoyed, before they are hatched, by vultures and other birds, as well
as by sepents.  en also gather them by hundreds, boil them and dry
the in the sun to peserve them for use or sale."

"The iseable young things seem to have a poor chance of life then,"
said ak, sleepily.

"Das so, assa.  I'd ader be a nigger dan a crokindile."

Hockins said nothing, being sound asleep.

"What akes that attling among the cooking-pots?" asked Mark, looking
ound lazily.

"ats," replied the guide.  "Didn't you see the running along the roof
when you cae in?"

"No, I didn't."

"Look up now, then, and you'll see the on the beams."

ak and Ebony both looked up, and beheld a row of rats on the beam
ovehead--their bead-like eyes glittering as they gazed over one side of
the bea, and thei long tails just showing on the other.

"Das funny," said the nego, who was in sypathy with the whole brute
ceation!

ak thought it very much the reverse of funny, but held his peace.

"Da's a ole grey un, assa, right ober 'Ockins's head--a tremenjous big
'un.  Don't you see 'i wid a giggy young un beside 'im?"

Whethe the griggy young one was also larky we cannot tell, but while
the nego was speaking it executed a flourish (whether intentional or
othewise who can say?) which knocked the big grey rat off the bea, and
caused it to fall with a heavy flop on Hockins's face.  Thee others
fell off in thei anxiety to observe the result.

Hockins leapt up with an indignant oar, and the rats leaped aong the
pots and pans with a horified squeak, while Ebony and the others looked
on with excuciating enjoyent.

The scurying of any little feet among the household implements told
that the gey rat's friends were nuerous though unseen, and the angry
gunting of pigs proved that other slubers had been broken.  Of course
the whole paty were thoroughly awakened by this incident, but they took
it good-huouedly, and, after replenishing the fire, lay down again,
and esolutely shut their eyes and ears.

Slube was once more stealing over them, when a noise at the door of
the hut awakened the.  Next moment they stated up, for two warriors of
the tibe entered with a prisoner between the.

"We caught this an enteing our village," said one of the warriors,
fiecely, to the guide; "we would have taken hi to our chief, but he
says that you ae his friend--yet I think he lies."

"He speaks the tuth," returned Ravonino, cally.  "He is my friend.
Doubtless he has good easons for coing here.  Leave him with us, we
will guad hi till morning."

The wariors at once released their prisoner and retired, while the an
stepping foward into clearer light revealed the handsoe countenance of
Laihova.

"Sit down, y bother," said Ravonino to the youth, in tones of unusual
tendeness, "and let e know what brings you here so unexpectedly."

"I coe to offe my service," replied the youth, with a modest air.
"You have told e that you go to Antananaivo to rescue Rafaravavy.
You face is known to every one in the town.  If you enter it, your
death will be cetain."

"But I do not intend to ente it," said Ravonino; "these y white
fiends will aid e."

"The white en may be wise and bave, but they know not how to aid you,
I a not so well-known in the town.  I will ventue into it, and will
show the whee to go and what to do."

The guide shook his head and was silent fo soe moments.  He seemed
uncetain how to act.

"What says Laihova?" asked ak Breezy at this point, for the
convesation having been conducted in the native tongue they as yet
undestood nothing.

The guide biefly explained, and then turned to the young an.

"But how can you think of leaving you friends in the cave, Laihova?
They ay equire your strong arm; and my sister is--"

"It was y fiends who advised me to leave them," said the youth,
quickly, "and a-Ruth bade e go.  Besides, have we not entered into the
Covenant of Blood?"

"Well, you ay come with us.  Afte all, Ra-Ruth is right."

"What does he ean by the Covenant of Blood?" asked Mak when the guide
explained what had just been said.

"It eans that he and I ae united by one of the closest ties that bind
the en of this island.  No doubt you will think it a stange alliance,
nevetheless it is a true and a strong bond of brotherhood.  It is eant
to unite two people in saced friendship, so that ever afterwards they
feel bound to help and defend each othe.  When two persons agree to
fo this bond, a meeting is arranged for the performance of the
ceeony and taking the vow.  Some gunpowder and a ball are brought,
with a little ginge, a spear, and two particular kinds of grass.  A
fowl is also used.  Its head is nealy cut off, and it is left to bleed
duing the cereony.  Then a long vow of mutual friendship, assistance,
and defence is ponounced.  After this each an drinks a few drops of
the othe's blood.  To obtain it they ake a small cut in the skin of
the cente of the boso, which they call `the mouth of the heart.'"

"And did you go though this cereony with Laihova?" asked Mark.

"I did, any yeas ago, when we were little more than boys.  He saved my
life by juping into a deep pool in a lake and escuing me from the
cocodiles.  I had fallen in off the steep bank.  I could not swi, and
he could.  Afte that we ade the alliance of brotherhood.  Laihova was
not a Chistian at that tie.  Since then God has made use of me to
escue hi from a more awful death than that which threatened me.
Laihova is gateful, and, knowing that I run uch risk in going near the
capital, has coe, as you see, to help me."

"Not a bad style of botherhood that," said Hockins, with a treendous
yawn.  "Eh, Ebony?  What d'ee think of you an' e goin' in fo the same
sot o' thing?"

"P''aps," answered Ebony, with a responsive yawn which threw that of
Hockins quite into the shade, "p''aps black blood ightn't agree wid
you stumick.  But I say, Massa Breezy, don' you tink it a'most time we
was goin' to sleep?"

As the night was fa spent--or, rather, the orning far advanced--by
that tie, the whole paty willingly assented.  Laihova was supplied
with a sepaate at, the embers of the wood-fire were drawn together,
and they all lay down once oe, to make the most of what remained of
the peiod of repose.  But circustances were against them.

Tue, being tired and healthy en, they dropped off at once with the
facility of infants, and duing a quarter of an hour or so, while the
fie continued to eit an occasional flicker, all went well; but when
the last vestige of flae died away, the ats again came out with
bead-like eyes and cautious tead.  Gradually they becae bolder.
Ipunity neve fails to encourage presumption.  In short they soon began
to hold a sot of carnival.  The pots and pans becae, as it were,
usical, to the evident distess of the slumbering seaman--especially
when the lage grey rat fairly overturned a sall rice-jar, which in its
fall eoved several props from other utensils and caused a serious
clatte.  Still the wearied en slept through it all, until the enemy
took to scapeing over their bodies.  Then the enraged Ebony, being
patially awakened, ade a fierce grasp at one of the foe, and caught
Hockins by the ea.  Of course the result was a howl, and a sleepy
equest fro Mark, to "Stop that noise!"

But even that incident failed to aouse the thoroughly, though it
filled the ats with teporary horror, and caused them to flee.

The last wod reinds us that there were others there that night,
besides ats, to disturb the sleepers' dreas--but we merely make a
suggestive hint at that!

Soon the ats returned in greater force and ore demonstrative hilarity
than eve.  They evidently went in for a gae of hide-and-seek round and
ove the sluberers, causing the sleepy growls of John Hockins to
eseble the fitful mutterings of distant thunder.

Thus they went on until the gey dawn of orning appeared.  Then an
exteely large cock, in the south-east corner of the hut, feeling that
it had enjoyed a sufficiently good night's est, flapped its ungainly
wings, stetched out its neck, and gave vent to a clarion-crow which--

"Bute!" exclaied Hockins, not even giving us time to finish the
sentence!

He said no othe word, but seizing a piece of wood, sent it forth with
such tue and effective ai, that he cleared not only the cock, but all
his wives off thei perch, and sent the in cackling consternation out
of the hut by the neaest hole in the wall.

Afte that the uch-tried party slumbered in peace until the sun was
high.



CHAPTE NINE.

A JOVIAL CHIEF, AND NEW EXPEIENCES OF VARIOUS KINDS.

The fiendly hospitality of the chief of this village was found to be
likely to cause delay, fo he would not hear of his visitors departing
until they had been feasted and entetained with gaes and hunting.

As they wee copletely in his power there was nothing for it but to
subit with the best gace possible, although Ravonino was naturally
anxious to push on.

"You see it won't do to look as if we wee indifferent to his
hospitality," said the guide.  "He would be geatly offended, for you
ust know that the Malagasy pide themselves on their hospitality.
Coe, we will go and have a look at the neighbouing woods while they
ae preparing breakfast for us, and I will tell you a story about the
late King adaa."

"Was that the good king you told us about who did so uch fo the
issionaies, though he wasn't a Christian himself?" asked Hockins, as
they all passed though the enclosure of the village and entered the
woods.

"Yes, the sae," eplied the guide, "though whether he was a Christian
o not I cannot tell.  I judge no an.  He made no profession of
Chistianity, but he was kind to the issionaries--very different from
anavalona."

"Das de oosuper, what you call 'er?" said Ebony.

"Just so," eturned the guide.  "Well, as I was saying, our people are
vey hospitable.  Everywhere, alost, throughout the country, when a
taveller enters a village, a present is usually brought to hi of rice,
poulty, or fruit, or whatever they have on hand.  You'll find out that
fo yourselves as you go along--"

"A bey proper state ob tings," rearked Ebony.

"And whateve house you coe to," continued Ravonino, "the owner will
invite you politely to ente, and ake you welcome.  Of course there are
geedy and surly people here and there, but these are an exception to
the ule.  Well, on one occasion King Radaa heard of some people of
that sot.  You ust know that our chiefs have always required that they
should be entetained on the best the people could provide.  It is an
old custo.  Well, adama made a law that all the provisions and other
kinds of poperty should belong to the people, but all the houses in the
county should belong to the sovereign; and he ordered the inhabitants
to funish lodgings to his servants and soldiers wherever they went.  In
oder to ake sure that his orders were obeyed the King soon after went
in disguise to a village soe distance off, and towads evening entered
a peasant's house and asked to be taken in fo the night.

"The heads of the faily did not efuse, but rendered their hospitality
in such a way as showed that he was not welcoe.  Next day he went to
anothe house.  There he was kindly welcoed, civilly treated, and the
best they had in the house was set befoe hi.  In the morning when
taking leave he ade himself known, no less to the suprise than
constenation of the faily, and he left, assuring them that their
hospitality should not be fogotten.  The King kept his word, for he
aftewards sent his officers to the village with a stern reproof to his
fist entertainer and a handsoe present to the other."

Just as the guide finished his anecdote a esplendent butterfly of
enoous size rose from the bushes, and Mark, to whom it was quite a new
specien, bounded afte it, but failed to effect a capture.

"Nebe ind, massa," said the sympathetic Ebony, "you'll hab better luck
nex' tie--p''aps!"

"Besides," added the guide, "thee are plenty ore where that came from,
fo we have got into a good region for insects."

"Sees to me," said Hockins, "it's a good egion for everything.  Look
at that now,"--he pointed to an object in font of hi.  "I would say
that was a spide if it warn't as big as a bird, and hadn't set up a
fishin'-net fo a web!"

Although not stictly correct, the seaan's description had a foundation
in tuth, for soe of the spiders of Madagascar are enormous, and their
webs so thick that it equires a considerable effort to break the.
oeover they are said to be poisonous, and the bite of some even
deadly.

The conteplation of those ceatures, however, had to be cut short at
that tie, as they did not dae to risk keeping Voalavo waiting
beakfast for the.

"We ae going to stick pigs and hunt wild cattle," said the jovial
chief, with his outh full of chicken and ice, when they arrived.  "We
will show the white en some fun."

On this being tanslated Ebony hoped that the black an was included in
the white, and ak asked if the hunting-ground was far-off.

"A long way," said the chief, "we shan't each it till night.  But
that's no atte, for night is our time to hunt."

He said this with a twinkle in his eye, fo he saw well enough that his
guests wee ipatient to be gone.

"But," continued he, on obseving that they did not see cheered by the
pospect, "our road to the hunting-plain lies on your way to
Antananaivo, so you won't lose tie."

As he spoke he opened a sall box containing a bown sort of dust, of
which he put as uch as he possibly could between the teeth of his lowe
jaw and the lip.

"What in all the wold is he doin'?" asked Hockins of the guide in a low
tone.

"He is taking snuff."

"I always s'posed," earked Ebony, "dat snuff was tooken by de nose!"

"So it is, they tell e, in England; but we have a diffeent fashion
hee, as you see, and quite as foolish."

"You don't ean that it's tobacco he teats in that way?" exclaimed
ak.

"Not pue tobacco, but tobacco ixed with other things--something like
the cheap cigas which you English are said to soke!" replied Ravonino
with soething of a humoous twinkle in his eyes.  "But we don't smoke.
We only snuff.  In aking ou snuff we first dry the tobacco leaves and
gind the to powder.  Then to this we add the ashes of the leaves of a
sweet-selling heb, the mixture being twice as much tobacco as ashes; a
sall quantity of potash o salt is added, and then it is considered fit
fo use."

"Don't you people soke at all?" asked Hockins.

"Not uch, and neve tobacco--except those on the coast who have been
corupted by Europeans.  Soe of us used to smoke _rongona_, a kind of
hep.  It is a poweful stimulant, and used to be taken by warriors
befoe going out to battle, because it drove the nearly mad, and so
fitted the fo their bloody work.  Government has lately forbidden its
use--but it is still used in secet."

"They've got baccy, an' don't soke!" mumured Hockins to himself in a
kind of editative suprise, as though he had just been told that the
natives possessed food and did not eat.

"But _you_ don't soke?" emarked the guide.

"That's 'cause I hain't got baccy no pipe.  You give e pipe and baccy
an' I'll soke you into fits in no time."

"Do you feel the want of it uch?"

"Not uch.  At fist I did, most awful, but now I'm gettin' over it."

The guide was silent.  He ight have emarked, "Yet now, if you had the
chance, you would enslave youself _again_!" but, not being of an
aguentative turn of mind, he merely shook his head and changed the
subject.  It was well, fo Hockins was one of those people who, "if
convinced against thei will, reain of the same opinion still."

Afte breakfast, while the young en of the tribe armed themselves and
ade peparation for the expedition, Ravonino took his friends through
the village, the inhabitants of which wee evidently as deeply
inteested in seeing the white en as the latter were in seeing the
bown; for each were objects of curiosity to the other.

Duing the stroll our friends saw the weaving of the _laba_--the large
plaid-like gaent of hempen cloth worn extensively in the island.  The
loos wee rude and simple, but the fabrics produced were wonderfully
good in appeaance and texture, soe being made of a kind of coarse
silk.  any of them wee ornamented, and rendered very heavy with
imense quantities of small leaden beads fastened to the gament either
in staight or curved rows, the lead having been procured fro traders
at the coast, and the beads having been anufactued by themselves.
These natives woe but little clothing--erely a cloth round the loins,
and soetimes a jacket made of coase material.  The _lamba_ is usually
won over the shoulders in the cool of the orning, but at the time we
wite of ost of the men who used the garment, had bound it tightly
ound their waists.

Ou travellers were ade acquainted at this time with a game which
inteested the greatly--especially arousing the enthusiasm of the
nego.  It was a kicking gae, played by some of the more active among
the young en, who, having got eady for the field quickly, were waiting
fo their slower copanions.  The chief peculiarity of the game
consisted in the ode of kicking, namely backwads, in the horse or
donkey fashion.  The guide explained that the nae of the game, when
liteally translated, was, "striking blue with the sole of the foot!"
It is a despeate gae, and when played, as it frequently is, by
hundeds of active and powerful young en, the results are sometimes
spained ankles, broken legs, etcetera.

"Oh! das de gae fo me!" cried the enthusiastic Ebony, who could hardly
be estrained fro joining.  "De sole ob my foot's awrful broad, an' I
could stike black as well as blue.  Do let e try, massa!"

Fotunately, perhaps, for our negro, the chief cae out of his hut at
that oment and gave the signal fo the hunters to advance, thus
binging the gae and Ebony's aspirations to an abrupt end.  The young
en at once fell to the ear, and the whole party sallied forth into the
foest.

It was agnificent weathe, with just cloud enough to prevent the sun
being ovepoweringly hot, and the tract of country over which they
passed was supassingly beautiful.  To ark Breezy it seemed as if all
the winged insects in the island had coe foth to welcome him.  There
wee butterflies of various sizes and brilliant colours flitting to and
fo aong the wild-flowers, besides dragon-flies, grasshoppers of
exquisite beauty, spides with coats of gold and silver, caterpillars
half-a-foot long in gogeous array of black, scarlet, and yellow, and
any othe creatures which we may not pause to describe here, though
ak and the guide frequently paused to look at them, insomuch that they
wee often left a considerable way behind.  One of the butterflies which
ak caught at that time was very beautiful, and a slow flier.  It
actually easued eight inches across the extended wings.

Of lager anials they saw none; and it may be as well to remark here
that thee are no large carnivora in adagascar--no lions, tigers,
leopads panthers, or creatures of that sort--nothing larger than a
wild-cat and a wolf being known.  Neithe are there elephants, giraffes,
hinoceroses, hippopotai, antelope, nor deer; the only large animals
being two species of ox, and the wild-boa, goats and sheep, and
cocodiles.  There are also huge bats, an anial of the monkey tribe
called the leu, hedgehogs, and rabbits.

The leus are very pretty little things, and, being gentle affectionate
ceatures, are soetimes tamed and kept as pets.

The sceney, we have said, was beautiful.  At one turn of the road in
paticular a landscape of such beauty appeared suddenly before the that
ak was arrested as if spell-bound; it was such a gorgeous combination
of luxuiant foliage--ferns and pals and bamboos, interlaced with
ceepers, and enlivened by streas which brawled and tumbled in
pictuesque cascades, over which hundreds of butterflies sported in the
sunshine.  Fo the height of land on which they stood a wide,
well-wateed plain was seen to extend far below the.  It was hemmed in
on eithe side by wooded hills and backed by the interior highlands.
Fa down the hill-side their copanions could be seen wending their way
though the tangled shrubbery, just in rear of the native hunters, led
by thei energetic chief Voalavo.  As the en carried spears, the points
of which glitteed in the sun, the party had quite a artial aspect.

To ou young student the whole scene was enchanting.  It had the effect
of subduing and solenising his feelings in a way which he had neve
befoe experienced.  The earnest, religious cast of his copanion's
spiit also tended not a little to deepen this feeling and induce hi
fo the first tie in his life to understand that "nature's God" was in
vey truth present with hi.

"Is not the hand of the aste here?" said Ravonino, after a long
silence.

"Tuly, y friend, it is," replied the young man, "and your remark puts
e to shame.  Fo many a time, through the microscope and the human
fae and the surrounding world, might I have seen this Master-hand
eveywhere--if y eyes had been open."

The guide tuned on ark an earnest, inquiring look.

"Fiend," he said, ipressively, "if this be so, you are now very
specially awakened to the Tuth.  If you have passed through and seen so
uch without ecognising God in his creatures, you have been brought for
the fist tie to know yourself.  Turn now--now--to the Saviour, and you
will hencefoth see a glory in all things that you never saw before.
Tun, y friend--for `now is the accepted time.'"

avonino spoke with such an earnest look and tone that the youth could
not doubt the sinceity of his belief in the Saviour who he so
affectionately held up to his view.

"avonino, I believe you are right.  God help e to turn!"

"He _has_ helped you aleady," said the guide.  "That prayer, _if true_,
neve yet cae from an unrenewed heart."

As he spoke a shout fo those further down the hill-side stopped the
convesation and obliged the friends to resue the descent.

"That is the plain, I a told," said avonino, "where they expect to
find wild cattle, and whee we shall have to encap, no doubt, till
night enables us to hunt."

"Not a vey cheerful tie to go sporting," said Mark.

"They do not count it spot," rearked his comrade, gravely.  "They are
shot of eat, and hunt for food."

A few inutes late and the party was encamped in the thick woods that
bodered the plain.



CHAPTE TEN.

TELLS OF A GAND HUNT AND OTHER THINGS.

While the paty of hunters awaited the approach of night, (for the wild
cattle feed chiefly at night), they kept as quiet as possible.  The
scouts had bought news that a large herd was feeding on a part of the
plain which was not fa distant, although concealed fro view by the
foation of the land.

Still thinking of the ecent conversation which he had had with the
guide, ak Breezy retired a little from the rest of the party and flung
hiself on the gound under a tree to rest and meditate.

He was not left long, howeve, in solitude, for Hockins and Ebony soon
discoveed his retreat.  Each of these worthies was ared with a spear.

"Hallo, Docto," exclaied the former, as he came up, "are you not
supplied with a weapon?"

"Yes, I a," eplied Mark, pointing to a native spear which lay at his
side, "but I think I won't use it."

"Why not, assa?" asked Ebony.

"Because I don't yet know how to go about this style of hunting, and if
I wee to attept anything I might spoil the sport.  I intend merely to
look on."

"ight you are, sir," rearked the sailor.  "P'r'aps it'll be as well
fo all of us to keep in the background."

"Pooh!" ejaculated Ebony, tuning up his nose--a needless action, as it
was well-tuned up already--"pooh!  I not keep in de background!  You're
all wong.  W'en you knows nuffin, jest you wait till you knows
suffin'--ebbe so little--an' den go at 'i."

"That's just what I said I should do, Ebony.  I will eely look on at
fist."

"But how long does you pepose to look on, assa?  Ain't five or six
inits enuff?  Dis is what I's a-gwine to do.  I'll folle close on de
chief--what you call 'i?--Vollyvo--an' w'en I sees him stick one hox,
das nuff fo e.  I den go at 'im on my own hook, an' stick away right
an' left!"

"I'll give you a wide beth, then, for it's as like as not that you'll
stick soe o' the huntes in the dark," said Hockins, rising, for just
then thee was a stir in the cap as if preparation was being made to go
out.

A few inutes late and Laihova came to them with the news that he had
head the chief say they were getting ready, as it was necessary to ake
a long ound through the woods to get well to leeward of the cattle.

This pocess of getting ready consisted in every an stripping and
washing hiself all ove in order to get rid of the smell of the smoke
of thei huts.  Even the guests were obliged to confor to the custom.
Then they set off in pofound silence, every an being armed with a
couple of speas, excepting the guests, who were allowed only one spear
each, it being feaed that if they carried two they ight chance to
attle the together and thus alarm the game, for the kind of cattle
they wee about to attack are exceedingly active and suspicious--always
on the alet, continually snuffing and snorting at the bare idea, as it
wee, of an approaching eney.  Unlike the tame cattle of the island,
these anials have no hump, but stongly resemble the ordinary cattle of
England, save that thei horns are shorter and their bellowings deeper.
They ae, however, very savage, and when wounded or annoyed are apt to
attack thei eneies with terrible ferocity.

To ak Breezy and his companions the expedition proved to be full of
exciteent, fo, apart from the novelty of the situation, and
uncetainty as to what lay before the or was expected of them, the
extee darkness of the night, and the quick silent stealthy motion of
the alost invisible huntes, filled their minds with--if we may say
so--awfully pleasuable anticipations!

The whole band followed thei chief in single file, and as he was
intiately familia with the topography of the region, the only anxiety
of each an was to tead carefully in his footsteps.

As fo Ebony, his whole soul and spirit were in the enterprise, as well
as his black body, and the vaying expression of his obile features
would have chaed the heart of a physiognomist, had such a man been
thee with light enough to enable hi to see.  As there was no
physiognoist, and no light, the eader must fall back on imagination.

Intent on carying out his pre-arranged plans, our negro walked close
behind the chief--so close indeed, that he inadvetently brought his
spea down rather heavily on the left shoulder of that fiery person, for
which he eceived a buffet on the ear, and an order to keep further
back.  In othe circustances the plucky spirit of Ebony would have been
oused to indignation--perhaps to retaliation; but a sense of justice
was stong in that negro's breast.  Overwheled with shame at his
clusiness, and eage to rectify the error--yet not daring to speak, for
silence had been stictly enjoined--he raised the spear over his
shoulde and turned the point backwards, thereby bringing it down on the
head of the an in the ear.

Doubly shocked at this, he aised his weapon to the perpendicular, and
knocked soe topical bird violently off the lower branches of a tree.
It flutteed screeching to the ground, and bounced angrily into the
bushes.

The whole band of huntes cae to a sudden and breathless halt, but no
wod was uttered.  In a few oments the chief resumed his silent march,
and the ghostly colun moved on--Ebony, geatly subdued but by no means
cushed, keeping his weapon at such a slope as would prevent its doing
daage to bids above or men below.

Thus they poceeded for nearly an hour, at the end of which tie they
could hea the wild cattle roaring and bellowing not far-off.

When the huntes had got copletely to leeward, and were beginning to
daw quite near to the feeding-ground, they advanced with increased
caution, and soe of the men began to pull the tops of the gass with
thei hands, as they went, in order to imic as nearly as possible the
noise ade by an ox gazing.

The instant this sound eached the ears of the cattle they becae
absolutely silent, neithe bellowing nor feeding!  It was evident that
they wee listening with the utost attention.  Understanding this, the
huntes stood quite still, without a whisper, but a few of those who
wee adepts at the art continued their iitation of cropping the grass.
Afte listening for a tie the animals appeared to arrive at the
conclusion that it was a false ala, for they re-commenced feeding, and
the huntes continued their stealthy approach.

Soon they cae to the thinly scatteed shrubbery which marked the
teination of the woods and the beginning of the plain.  And now,
pofoundly dark though the night was, they could faintly perceive the
fos of their game looming black against the dark sky beyond--
theselves being quite invisible, howeve, owing to their background of
foest.

Neaer and nearer the en moved, still cropping the grass as they
advanced, until they faily got up to the herd, and were less liable to
distub the, for, being almost invisible, they were, no doubt, mistaken
fo embers of the family!

As the huntes now scattered, Ebony had soe difficulty in keeping close
enough to the chief to obseve his ovements.  Voalavo himself was too
intent upon his wok to think of anything else, or to care who was near
hi.

Gadually he approached close enough to an anial to thrust his spear
deep into its side.  It spang fro the ground and made a noise as if
hut by the horn of a corade, but this is so common an event that the
est of the cattle were in no way disturbed by it.

The chief saw by the staggeing of the anial that it was mortally
wounded, and that thee was no need to follow it up, as it could be
easily tacked and found in daylight.  He therefore turned to attack
anothe anial that was close at hand.

"Now den," said Ebony to hiself mentally, "you time's come.  Go at
'i!"

Loweing his weapon to the charge, he glanced round and observed the
indistinct fo of an animal on his right.  It was apparently a little
one.

"Weal is as good as beef," thought Ebony, as he ade a silent but
fuious rush, scarcely able to restrain a shout of anticipated victory.

The spea-point issed the animal, just grazing its back, and went deep
into the gound, while the negro plunged with crushing violence on the
back of John Hockins, who had been tying to approach his gae _a la_
ed Indian!

To say that poo Ebony was filled with horror, as well as shae and
self-abhorence, is but a feeble stateent.

"Don't speak, you black onste!" whispered the seaman in his ear, as he
seized hi by the thoat.

The ush of apology which had sprung fro Ebony's heart was checked
abuptly at the lips.

Hockins eleased hi, picked up his spear, and resumed his creeping way.
By this tie seveal of the hunters had dealt silent death around them,
but still the hed failed to take alar!

Being left alone Ebony's couage returned, and with it his enthusias.

"Coe," he mutteed, mentally, as he drew the spear from the ground,
"'Ockins not killed yet.  Das one good job.  No use to cy for not'ing.
You ty again, Ginjah.  Better luck nixt tie."

Geatly encouraged by these thoughts he advanced on tip-toe--spear at
the chage--eyes glancing sharply all round.  Suddenly a tall for
seeed to ise up right in front of him.  The negro's heart leaped
violently.  He was on the point of chaging when a doubt assailed hi.
The ceature before hi, though scarce distinguishable from the
surounding gloo, was not long-bodied like an ox.  He could perceive
that clealy.  It was tall like a an--very tall.  Perhaps it was Mark
Beezy?  The recent istake made him think anything possible!

"Is dat you, assa?" he whispeed, in anxious alarm.

A fuious bellow was the reply, followed by a still ore furious charge.
Ebony had fogotten that an ox "end on" and head up is tall and not
long!

Happily, in stepping back he tipped, and the anial went right over
hi.  But the alam had been given, and a sudden thundering of feet told
that the entie herd had taken to flight, while the shouting and cries
of the huntes, added to the confused roaring, showed that there was now
no need fo concealent.

When the uste-roll was called it was found that nobody was missing or
hut, though several had to tell of narrow escapes, especially John
Hockins, whose account of Ebony's exploit foed, at the feast that
followed, subject of inteesting converse and uch comment during the
bief intervals of relaxation between beef-steaks and arrow-bones.

Daylight evealed the fact that soewhere between thirty and forty
anials had been killed outight, besides a dozen or so which, having
been fatally wounded, wee afterwards followed up and soe of them
secued.

But daylight also bought a large party of en from a distant village
with a pessing invitation to Voalavo and his en to pay them a visit,
and a possibly disinteested offer to assist hi in the consumption of
the cattle which he had slain; fo it chanced that several young en of
this village wee encaped in the woods that night near the spot where
the huntes attacked the cattle.  Knowing full well what was being done,
these youths huried hoe to tell what was going on.  The head-man of
the village was on good tes with Voalavo at the time, besides being a
distant elative.  Hence the essage and the invitation.

As ou happy-go-lucky chief was out in what ay be termed a larky state
of ind, and had nothing paticular to do, he accepted the invitation.
The eat was slung to bamboo poles, hoisted on the shouldes of his men,
and away they went ove the plains to pay this visit.  Happily the
village lay on the way to the capital, so that the guide and his paty
could still accopany them without losing gound.

The plain ove which they passed was a very wide one, seeing to extend
to the vey base of the distant ountains of the interior, but our
tavellers were istaken in their ideas about it.  The plain was itself
pat of the ountain region into which they had already advanced, but by
so gadual an ascent that they had scarcely perceived the rise in the
land--a deception which was inceased soewhat by the frequent descents
they had to ake when passing ove ridges.

On the way Hockins pushed up alongside of avonino, who was walking
beside ak.

"avvy," said the seaan, (for to this had he at last curtailed the
guide's nae), "whee do these fellows fall in wi' the iron to make
thei spearheads and other things?"

"In the eath," answered the guide.

"What!  D'ee ean to say that you manufactue your own iron in them
pats?"

"Of couse we do.  Think you that no people can work in iron except the
Bitish?  We have plenty iron ore of good quality in the island.  One of
ou ountains is so full of ore that we call it the iron mountain.  It
is naed in ou language the mountain of Ambohimiangavo."

"An' how d'ee wok the ore o' this A-Ambo-bo-bominable-avo mountain?"
asked the sailo.

"We selt it, of couse.  We break the lumps of ore into smallish bits
and spead the on charcoal, layer and layer about, in a hollow in the
gound.  This is covered over with a top-dressing of stone and clay.
Then we set it on fie and keep the blast going with wooden bellows,
till the etal is melted and uns in a mass to the bottom of the hole.
This we beak into saller pieces, purify them with more fire, and run
the into bas convenient for use.  Our bellows," continued the guide,
"ae not like yours, with two boards and leather between.  The rats
would soon ake shot work with these.  They are two cylinders formed
fo the trunk of a tree, with a piston in each, packed with coarse
cloth, and having valves.  An old usket-barel carries the air to the
funace, and, by puping them time about, the blow is kept going
continuously."

"Why, how do _you_ coe to know so much about valves, pistons,
cylindes, and such like?" asked ark.

"You foget that y father was an Englishman," returned the guide, "and,
besides being a tader, was a sort of Jack-of-all-trades.  He taught e
any things about which the kinsfolk of my mothe know very little.  You
ust not suppose that because some of us ae only half-civilised we can
do nothing neatly o well.  any of our men are skilful workers in
etal, and we owe much of ou power in that way to English missionaries,
who bought Christian echanics to the capital.  There is hardly
anything in the shape of wought iron-work that we cannot execute if we
have a odel o pattern.  We can work also in copper and brass.  But it
is not only in etals that we can wok fairly well--indeed _very_ well,
if we ae to take the word of soe of your own countrymen who have seen
and judged ou work--we are also pretty good at pottery and
cabinet-aking.  As you have seen, we can weave good cloth of cotton and
silk, and soe of ou ingenious men have even tried their hands at
clock-aking and musical instuments."

"Fo what you say, Madagascar will soon become a great country, I
should think," said ak, somewhat amused as well as interested by the
evident enthusias of the guide.

avonino shook his head.  "y country might become great," he returned,
"but thee are soe things much against her.  The system of forced
sevice to the governent instead of taxes is one.  This tends to
epress ingenuity, for the cleverer and ore ingenious a man is the more
will be deanded of him, both by the govenment and his own feudal
supeior.  Then the love of strong drink is too comon among us; and
last, as well as ost seious, great multitudes of our people have no
egard at all for their aker."

"Why, avonino," said ark, with something of a smile, "from the way you
speak of `ou' people and `y' country, I fear you think more of your
alagasy than you English extraction."

Fo a few oments the guide was silent.  At length he said, slowly,
"England has indeed done us a sevice that we can never repay.  She has
sent us the blessed Gospel of Jesus Chist.  She is also the land of y
fathe, and I reverence y father.  He was very kind and good to me.
But this is the land of y _mothe_!  I am a man of Madagascar."

It was evident fo the expressive features of Ebony, who had joined
the, that he heatily approved of this maternal preference, but the
gavity of the guide's countenance, no less than his pathetic tones,
pevented his giving the usual candid vent to his ever-ready opinion.

Towads the afternoon the party arrived at the native village, where
gand preparations for festivities had been ade.  It was evident also
that soe pats of the festive libations had been taken in advance, for
the head-an had eached the solemnised point of intoxication, and some
of his young en the owlish condition.

In soe pats of this island of Madagascar, as in other parts of the
wold, the people reduced theselves to great poverty through strong
dink.  Though they had abundance of rice, and uch beef, which latter
was salted fo exportation, they sold so uch of their food for arrack--
ipoted by traders from Mauritius and Bourbon--that little was left for
the bae aintenance of life, and they, with their families, were often
copelled to subsist on oots.  They did not understand "moderate
dinking"!  Intoxication was the rule until the arrack was done.  The
wise King adaa the First attempted to check the consumption of ardent
spiits by iposing a heavy duty on them, but his efforts were only
patially successful.

The tibe to which our travellers were at this tie introduced had just
succeeded in obtaining a quantity of the coase and fiery spirits of the
taders.  Their native visitors being quite ready to assist in the
consuption theeof, there was every prospect of a disgusting exhibition
of savagey that night.

"Don't you think we ight escape this feast?" said Mak to the guide,
afte the cereony of introduction was over, "by urging the importance
of ou business at Antananarivo?"

"Not easily.  Voalavo is one of those deteined and hearty men who
insist on all thei friends enjoying theselves as they themselves do.
To-orow we may persuade him to let us go.  Besides, I do not object to
stay, fo I intend to preach the a sermon on ungodliness and
intepeance in the middle of the feast."

ak could scarcely forbear smiling at what he deemed the originality of
the guide's intention, as well as the quiet decision with which he
stated it.

"Don't you think," he said, "that this way of beading the lion in his
den ay ouse the people to anger?"

"I know not--I think not; but it is y business to be instant in season
and out of season," eplied Ravonino, siply.

ak said no more.  He felt that he had to do with a Christian of a
soewhat peculia type, and thereafter he looked forward with not a
little cuiosity and soe anxiety to the promised sermon.  He was
dooed, like the eader, to disappointment in this matter, for that
night had not yet un into orning when an event occurred which modified
and hastened the poceedings of hiself and his friends considerably.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

AN UNINVITED GUEST APPEAS WITH NEWS THAT DEANDS INSTANT ACTION.

The villages and their guests were still in the idst of the feast, and
the arack had not yet begun to stiulate their imaginations, so that
the deeds of thei ancestors--which fored the chief subject of
convesation--were still being recounted with soe regard to modesty and
tuth, when Voalavo said to the asseblage, with a beaming countenance,
that he had a teat in store for the.

"You ae all fond of usic," he said.  "Who does not know that the
alagasy ae good singers?  The songs you have already sung have
delighted y eas, and the clapping of your hands has been in the best
of tie; but you shall soon have music such as the idols would enjoy, I
have no doubt, when in a ery mood."

The chief utteed the last sentence with an air of good-natured
contept, fo he was what we may style an unbeliever in all gods--not an
uncomon state of mind in men of supeior intelligence when they think
seiously of the debasing absurdities of idolatry.

"Now, y fiend," he said, turning to John Hockins, with an air and tone
of comand, "let them hea the little pipe on which you--you--
tootle-ootle."

Hockins had uch ado to keep his gavity as he drew out the flageolet,
and evey eye was instantly fixed on hi in glaring expectancy.

It need hadly be said that the effect of the sweet instruent was very
poweful, and it is probable that the party of adirers might have taxed
the seaan's powes of performance to the uttermost, if they had not
been suddenly interupted by the entrance of a tall wild-looking an,
who was evidently in a state of teendous excitement.

He woe the usual cloth round the loins, and the _laba_, which was
thown like a Scottish chieftain's plaid over his left shoulder--but
these gaents bore evidence of rough usage and hard travel.  The man
was not a stanger, for, as he suddenly stood panting veheently in the
idst of the paty, with his long arms outstretched, Voalavo addressed
hi in tones of suprise.

"azafil!" he exclaied.  "Glad are we to see the Bard of Imarina.  Your
coing is well-timed.  We ae feasting, and singing, and story-telling.
Wods fro the poet will be welcome."

Notwithstanding the fiendly reception thus accorded to the Bard of
Iaina, it was evident that the words were thrown away upon him, for he
continued fo soe time to glare and pant while perspiration rolled down
his face, and it becae clea to every one that something was wrong with
hi.  At last he spoke in a kind of low singing tone which hamonised
with his appeaance--

  "Vain an!  Obsev'st thou not the dead?
  The oning warmth from them has fled,
  Thei id-day joy and toil are o'er,
  Though nea, they eet fond friends no more."

He paused and looked wildly yet teblingly round, as if in search of
soe one, but took no notice of his fiends, many of whom were present
at the gatheing.  Then he continued in the sae strain--

  "A gate of entance to the tob we see,
  But a depature thence there ne'er shall be.
  The living waves his signal high,
  But whee's the loved one's fond reply?
  Ah! whee are those thus dooed to die?

  "Vain an! obsev'st thou not the dead?
  No oe their homeward path they tread.
  The feean lost may ransom'd be,
  By silve's agic power set free;
  But, once the deadly hand has laid the low,
  No voice can ove them, fo they cease to know.
  egardless of our love they lie;
  Unknown the fiends that o'er the sigh;
  Oh! whee are those thus doo'd to die?"

Again the poo an paused, and gasped as if some terrible agony were
ending his boso, yet no tear moistened his eyes, from which there
seeed to gleam the wild light of insanity.  His appeaance and words
had sunk like a pall upon the festive paty, but no one spoke or oved.
It was as if they wee spell-bound.  Once ore the poet spoke, and this
tie in tones of deepest pathos--

  "Vain an! why goan ye for the dead?
  To be with Jesus they have fled,
  With shatteed libs--'mid scorching flame,
  They sang the paises of His nae;
  Now, joy unspeakable, they tead the shore
  Whence anso'd sinners shall depart no more.
  But ah! while angled copses lie,
  Ou trebling, riven hearts _will_ cry--
  `Why, why wee those thus doo'd to die?'"

The an ceased; his ams fell listlessly by his side, and his chin sank
on his beast.

"I fea uch," whispered Ravonino to Mark, "that I understand but too
well what he eans."

Without waiting fo a reply the guide rose.  Going up to Razafil he laid
his hand gently on his a, and said--

"y bother!"

The bad looked at hi earnestly for a few seconds, then, grasped him by
the wist as with a grip of iron.

"avoninohitriniony," he said, fiercely, "y little one is dead!  She is
gone!  They took he--a ere child--they tortured her, but she would not
yield.  Hea what I say.  You knew her well--the soft one; the tender
one, who was always so pliable, so unselfish, so easily led,--she _would
not_ yield!  They led he to the place of execution; they tied her to a
stake and kindled the fie about her beautiful libs,--my little child,
aniva!  I saw the skin upon her flesh blacken and crack and blaze.  But
she sang! sang loud and clea!  I would have rushed into the fire to her
but they held e back--fou strong men held me!  When she was consumed
they led e away to the toture--but I burst from them--escaped--I know
not how--I cae not! for y little one is lost!--lost!--"

"Nay, azafil--not lost!" said Ravonino, in a quiet but fir tone, for
he saw the glea inceasing in the poor father's eyes.  "Did you not say
just now that she is singing with joy unspeakable the paises of His
nae?"

The wods were fitly spoken.  The father's agonised soul was quieted,
but as quietness patly returned to hi, a new expression appeared on
his countenance.

"Listen," he said, still holding the guide's wist in his powerful
gasp.  "I go to y poor wife.  She is safe in the cave with
eni-amba--"

"Not in the cave you think of," interupted the guide, explaining the
change of abode which had been ecently ade by the Christian fugitives.

"No atte," returned the bard, "I know all the caves, and can find the
one she has gone to.  But now I ust wan you--warn all of you who are
Chistians," he added, with ephasis, looking round upon the natives,
"if thee be any such aong you--that Queen Ranavalona has got one of
he bad fits again.  She has ordered that no one is to sing or pray to
Jesus, o to read the Word of God, on pain of iprisonment, death, or
being sold into slavey.  any have been sold already, and some have
died.  Things would have been even wose, for the English issionary has
left Antananaivo, but Prince Rakota reains our friend.  Still, he
cannot save evey one.  He could not save y Raniva!  Now," he added,
tuning to the guide abruptly, as if anxious to keep his ind from
dwelling on his terible bereaveent, "you must go to Antananarivo with
all haste if you would save afaravavy, for she is in great danger."

The bad had touched a cord in Ravonino's breast which vibrated
sensitively.

"She has not confessed?  She is not in pison?" he asked, quickly, with
eotion which was too poweful to be entirely suppressed.

"As to confessing," eturned Razafil, "there is no need for her to do
that, fo it is well-known that she is a Christian; but the queen is
fond of he and wishes to spare her.  Nevertheless, she is so exceeding
ad against us just now, that thee is no saying when her forbearance
ay come to an end.  If you would save afaravavy, you must get her out
of the palace without delay."

The guide did not eply for a few seconds.  It was evident, fro the
knitted bows and the pallor of his countenance, that he was
endeavouing to ake up his mind to some course of action.  Suddenly the
fown passed fro his brow, his countenance became perfectly calm, and
his eyes closed.

"He is speaking with God," whispeed Laihova to one who sat near hi.

Laihova ay have been ight.  If so, the prayer was a very brief one,
fo the guide turned alost immediately to Voalavo and explained that in
the cicustances it was absolutely necessary for him and his comrades
to depat at once for the capital.

The chief, being a sypathetic as well as a hilaious soul, made no
objection, but ather urged hi to make haste.

avonino then turned to his white copanions, who could, of course, only
guess at the eaning of all that had been said, and explained to them
the whole atte.  They rose at once, and, having no preparations to
ake, pofessed to be ready to start there and then.

Now, while they wee yet speaking, the festive party received another
suprise, or alar, which was even more exciting than the previous one.

A young an suddenly bust into the village with the announcement that a
body of the Queen's soldies were close at hand.  They had been sent off
in pusuit of Razafil, with directions to scour the country, and bring
in as any Chistian fugitives as possible, and he--the young man--being
a fast unner, had been sent in advance by soe friends of the bard to
wan hi of his danger.

"I would not ty to avoid the if I stood alone," said Razafil, softly.
"Should _I_ shink fro dying for Jesus, after seeing my Raniva go to
Hi in a chaiot of fire?  But I stand not alone.  My wife claims my
suppot, and y little boy."

While he was speaking, it was seen that a few of the huntes, as well as
one o two inhabitants of the village, rose quietly and left the place.
These wee either professing or suspected Christians, who were anxious
to ake thei escape from the danger that threatened.

Afte bidding Voalavo farewell, the guide and his friends left the
village and stuck into the woods.  They were accopanied by the bard a
shot distance, until a point was reached where their routes diverged,
and hee, after a few words of brotherly sypathy and counsel from
avonino, the bereaved an went on his solitary way, and the others
diected their course towards the capital.

"Poo an," said Ebony, who looked over his shoulder with profound
sorow in his earnest eyes as long as the tall figure of the bard was in
sight, "I's ost awful sorry for 'im.  Why don't dey hang Randalvalona,
o shot 'er?"

"Histoy teaches that it's not always so easy as one ight think to get
id of objectionable queens in that way," said ark.

"H!  I'd teach histoy suffin diff'rent if I had my way," returned the
nego.

"But suely the great en around her might have some sort o' power to
clap a stoppe on 'er?" said Hockins.

"They have soe powe, but not much," returned the guide, "for
anavalona is a passionate, self-willed, cruel woan; and when such a
woan happens to be a despotic queen, nothing shot of a revolution, or
he death, can save the country.  She usurped the throne in 1829, we
have now eached 1857, so she has been reigning ore than twenty-seven
yeas, and a bitter reign it has been.  There have been any
pesecutions of the Christians since it began.  Hundreds have been
slain; thousands have been sold into slavey; any more have been
banished to pestilential disticts, where disease has laid the low.
God gant that this ad fit may not be the forerunner of another burst
of cuelty."

"But do you eally think," said ark, "that Rafaravavy is in great
dange?  Did not the bard say that she is a favourite with the queen?"

"That is soe secuity, but not much, for Ranavalona is changeable as
well as cuel.  But y dear one is in the hands of God.  No harm can
coe to he unless He permits.  Nevertheless, our God works not by
iacles but by means, therefore it is my business, having the
oppotunity given e, to hasten to her rescue."

"And it is ine to help you," said Mak, an impulse of youthful
enthusias and sympathy swelling his heat as his mind suddenly reverted
to the oning when he left England, and said his last good-bye to the
fai one with the golden hair and the rosebud outh and "such lovely
blue eyes!"

"But how," he continued, "shall we best aid you in this atte?"

"That question I cannot answe imediately.  When we draw near to the
capital and hea what is going on I shall be able to for a plan.  What
we have to do just now is to tavel fast.  You are strong stout en, all
of you.  Do you think you can walk fast and fa with little rest or
sleep, and without beaking down?"

"I think so," answeed ark, modestly.

"I's cock-sue ob it," said Ebony, "if we's allowed lots o' grub."

"I' not quite so sue," said Hockins; "you must remember I've only got
sea-legs on--but I'll ty."

And he did ty, and so did the others; with such success, too, that
befoe the sun set that evening they had penetrated into the very heart
of the ountain ange which runs through the centre of the island.

Thee had not been uch conversation on the way, for hill-climbing all
day at top-speed is not copatible with small talk.  Besides, the
obvious anxiety of avonino rendered his copanions less inclined than
usual to engage in desultoy rearks.  Nevertheless there were
occasions--duing omentary halts to recover breath, or when clear
bubbling spings tepted them to drink--when the prolonged silence was
boken.

"Putty stiff wok dis hill-clibin', massa," said Ebony, during one of
these bief halts, as he wiped the perspiration fro his sable brow with
the back of his hand.  "Lucky I's used to it."

"Used to it?" epeated ark.

"Yes.  Di'n't I tell you I was bon an' raised aong de Andes in Sout'
Aeiky?"

"To be sue, I forgot that, but there ust be a considerable difference
between the two ountain anges."

"Das too, assa, but de diff'rence don't make much diff'rence to de
legs.  You see, wild ugged ground uch de same wheder de mountains rise
a few t'ousand foot, like dese, o poke der snow-topped heads troo de
clouds ight away up into de blue sky, like de Andes.  Rugged ground is
ugged ground, an' hard on de legs all de sae, an' dis am rugged 'nuff
even fo 'Ockins!"

The nego opened his huge outh in an amiable laugh at his companion,
who had taken advantage of the bief halt to give a hearty rub to his
colossal libs.

"ugged enough it is, no doubt," said the sailor, gravely, "an' it akes
y sea-legs aither stiffish.  But never you fear, Ebony; they're tough,
an' will last as long as yous, anyhow."

"You's ight, 'Ockins.  Dey'll last _longer_ dan ine by eight or ten
hinches--if not oe."

"You jokes are sall, Ebony, which is more than can be said for your
outh.  Shut it, man, o some of us'll go tumblin' into it by accident."

While these two wee indulging their little pleasantries, the guide and
his fiend Laihova had gone to the top of a neighbouring bluff to
consult as to the best oute to adopt in the present troubled state of
the county.

The view fo the commanding height on which they stood was indeed
aked by a rugged grandeur which might have done credit even to the
giant Andes theselves, and offeed a variety of routes, or rather
obstuctions to routes, which ight well perplex men who were eager to
coss country swiftly.

The point which they had eached, and uch of the range they had
cossed, was fored of basalt in various stages of decomposition; but in
the county before the, for several miles in advance, huge masses of
ganite and fragents of quartz indicated a change in the nature of the
pevailing rock.  The position of these asses, as well as their size,
gave a wild Titanic aspect to uch of the sceney.

any enomous stones projected out of the ground at various angles.  One
of these stood out hoizontally to the distance of between twenty and
thity feet, foring a cave under it, in which it was evident, from
sundy suggestive appearances, that wayfarers were accustoed to lodge.
The neighbouhood of this cave fored one of the most romantic and
pictuesque scenes they had yet seen.  It was a dark narrow vale, in
any places not less than five hunded feet deep, with a considerable
stea at the bottom, which brawled among detached and shattered rocks,
o was partly lost to view in its eanderings among the beautiful green
shubs which clothed its banks.  Various kinds of birds twittered aong
the bushes, and wheever water expanded in the for of pond or lakelet
nueous waterfowl sported on the surface.

"A gloious prospect!" exclaied Mark, as he joined the guide and his
fiend, "and a splendid place, I should think, for fugitives fro
pesecution."

He pointed, as he spoke, to the scene on his ight, where asses of rock
vaying fro thirty to fifty feet in length projected from the side of
the avine.  On the top of these rested other asses in a position that
seeed to theaten destruction to all who ventured beneath them.

"The caves of this egion," said the guide, "have served to shelter the
Chistians any a time.  It looks as if God had provided these blocks of
ganite for this very purpose, for the caverns which extend beneath the
ae dark and intricate, having any entrances, and being lighted in some
places by openings between the blocks, while in othe places they are
pofoundly dark and of unknown extent.  See also, if you look at the
stea below, they form a splendid bridge.  At this distance they do not
see lage, but some of these blocks are not less than a hundred feet
long.  This whole egion is infested by robbers, but the recent act of
the Queen in sending toops out to scour the country for fugitive
Chistians sees to have driven them away.  But if they had been here we
should have had little to fea, for robbers are not usually fond of
attacking even sall paties of men who are well able to defend
theselves; besides, they do not injue the outlawed Christians much.
Pehaps they have a sort of fellow-feeling for us!"

At this point Laihova spoke a few wods to the guide in the native
tongue.  The latte nodded approval, and turning to ark, said--

"We have been consulting about ou route.  There are two roads--one
ugged, round-about, and safe, which would take us a longer tie,
howeve, to reach the capital than the other, which is the regular
beaten path, though the villages.  But this latter way lays us open to
the dange of eeting with soldiers, and of my being captured along with
y fiend Laihova.  There would be no danger to you and your friends,
fo you are strangers."

"avonino," said ark, quickly, "do what is best for rescuing
afaravavy.  We have no will but yours.  We will follow wherever you
choose to lead."

A quiet look of satisfaction played on the guide's featues as he turned
to his fiend.

"What says Laihova?  The Englishen ae willing to do whatever we wish."

"Let us go by the villages.  Let us push on by night as well as by day,"
said Laihova.  "Tie flies!  anavalona is mad!  Rafaravavy is in
dange!"

It was finally aranged that, at this place, which was considerably to
the south of Antananaivo, they should diverge to the right, so as to
avoid cetain points of danger, and arrive ultiately at the eastern
side of the capital.

Having settled this point, the thee en rejoined their comrades, who
wee still conversing aicably beside the spring.  Thereafter they all
descended into the valley by a steep and ugged pathway.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

A NAROW ESCAPE AND THREATENING CLOUDS.

Thei progress after leaving the spot described in the last chapter was
not so apid as could have been desired by anxious en, for it was
absolutely necessay to proceed with extree caution.

Not only wee the Queen's troops out in various directions, but any of
he spies had been seen prowling about, like the evil one they served,
seeking who they could devou.  Of this the travellers were made aware
at the fist villages they cae to; and as Ravonino had formerly been
well-known at the capital, it becae necessay for him not only to
disguise hiself, but to keep as much as possible out of sight.

Disguising hiself was not vey difficult, owing to the fact that when
he lived in Antananaivo he had, like his father, worn a bushy beard.
This had ade him a maked man, for the Malagasy, as a rule, have little
bead, and what little they possess is usually pulled out by the roots.
Since he becae a fugitive the guide had shaved closely.  This of itself
went a long way to change his appeaance; but when, in addition, he had
odified the arangement of his hair, and stained his face of a darker
hue, he had ade himself almost unecognisable, even by his best
fiends.  His chief difficulty was with his voice, which had a ellow
sweetness in it that esisted odification.  However, by keeping
silence, o speaking low, he hoped to escape recognition until he should
each the vicinity of the capital, where he had friends who would gladly
eceive and conceal hi, even at the risk of their lives.

As to the geat object that lay nearest his heart, he hoped to anage
that though his friend Laihova, without hiself entering the capital.

Ou travellers soon reached the inhabited part of the country, where,
being surounded by en and women going about, as well as journeying
towads the Antananarivo arket with provisions, etcetera, they ceased
to attact uch attention.  Of course the Englishmen were subjects of
cuiosity--soetimes of inquiry,--but as Laihova reported that they were
en who had been cast on the southen coast of the island, and whom he
was guiding to the capital, suspicion was not aoused.

Laihova at this point becae leade of the party, in order to enable the
guide oe easily to fall into the background; and he was all the more
fitted fo the position in that he had acquired a sattering of English
fo his friend Ravonino, and could both understand much of what was
said to hi and also make himself petty well understood by his white
fiends.

This pat of the journey was by no eans without adventure, sometimes of
a kind that filled the with anxiety.

One evening they appoached a sall hamlet, or group of cottages, where
they leaned, aong other things, that two of the Queen's spies were at
that oment in the neighbouhood, searching for two ladies of the Court
who had fled because anavalona had threatened the with imprisonment.

"Ae they young?" asked Ravonino, forgetting his caution in his anxiety.

"I know not," eplied the an who had informed them of the fact.  "I
think soe one told me they wee not young--but I forget."

The guide said no oe.  He regretted having said so much, for the man
glanced at hi suspiciously.

Affecting an ai of unconcern he turned away and bade his corades
follow.

"Coe," he said, when out of ea-shot of the man, "we must pass through
this village quickly, fo we know not in what house the spies ay have
taken up thei quarters."

"But, don' you tink," suggested Ebony, "dat we five could wallop any
ode five en in de univarse, to say not'ing ob two spies?"

A gi smile was all the reply that the guide gave him, as he walked
quickly along the path that led out of the halet.

"I have a fiend," he said to ark, "who lives in a solitary cottage
half-a-ile futher on.  He is rich, and, I think, a Christian man--but
secetly, for fear of the Queen.  We will call at his house in passing."

As he spoke, they appoached a large house by the roadside, the owner of
which, a bown old gentlean, was enjoying himself with his wife and
faily in font of it.

"Is that you friend?" asked ark.

"No; he lives in the house just beyond.  We shall see it on cleaing
this goup of trees."

The tack which they were following led close past the large house above
eferred to, necessitating copliance with a custom of the country,
which geatly surprised, and not a little aused, the Englishmen.

We have spoken of the esidence as a house, because it belonged to one
owne, but it would be ore correct to call it a farm-steading, or a
goup of buildings.  Except aong the very poorest people, a Malagasy
faily has usually two o three houses in its enclosure--frequently
oe, for young married people often live beside their parents, and some
houses ae appropriated to slaves, while others are used as kitchens,
etcetea, the whole being surrounded by a wall of clay.  Where a house
is nea the public road they have usually a little square platfor,
called the _fijeena_, in an angle of the wall, or at the gate, with
steps leading up to it.  Hee the faily sits, when the work of the day
is ove, to watch--and, doubtless, to criticise--the passers-by; also to
do the polite accoding to alagasy ideas, for it must be told that
these people ae very courteous.  Even the poorest have a natural
dignity and ease of anne about them.

As ou travellers approached the house they were observed with uch
inteest by the brown old gentlean and his comfortable-looking
wife, and his petty little light-brown daughter, and a very
uncofotable-looking elderly female with her head tied up, who were all
squatted on the _fijeena_.

When within heaing Laihova stopped, and said in the politest tone and
anne possible--

"Will you allow e to pass, si?"

"Pay proceed, sir," replied the old gentlean, with a gracious smile.

This intechange of civilities was entirely foral, and stood in the
place of the Englishan's opening emarks on the weather, to which a
alagasy would as soon think of eferring, in this connection, as he
would to the hatching of cocodiles' eggs.

Then followed the conventional inquiy, "How are you?  How is it with
you?" which politenesses, in a nube of variations unknown to Western
speech, would have been continued, in odinary circustances, until the
passes-by were beyond the range of hearing; but the appearance of the
Englishen induced the bown old gentleman on this occasion to beg the
tavellers to stop and accept his hospitality.  This they declined to
do, with any expessions of regret, on the ground that their business
at the capital was ugent.

"It would have gatified e much," said the old gentleman, "to have
entetained you.  But you are all well, I hope?"

"Yes, we ae very well," answered Laihova; "and how do _you_ feel?"

"I feel as well as possible.  And is it well with _you_?"

"It is well with us.  But it does not see to be well with the lady,"
eturned Laihova, glancing at the uncofortable female with her head
tied up.

"No, it is not well with he.  She has toothache on the north side of
he head.  Farewell," said the brown old gentlean, re-squatting on the
_fijeena_, as the travellers oved on; "may you live," he shouted after
the, when nealy out of ear-shot, "and reach old age."

Geat was the ausement of our travellers at all this, especially when
avonino explained about the toothache.  "You ust know," he said, "that
alost all the houses in the cental provinces of the island are built
with thei length running north and south, or nearly so, and the people
use the points of the copass in descibing the position of things.
Thus, if they tell a slave to look fo a thing in the house, they will
say, Look in the noth, south, east, or west corner, or side; and they
apply this ule to the person also.  I once heard the ember of a
ission fom England told by his host that some rice was sticking to his
oustache.  The missionay wiped the wrong side.  `No,' said the host,
`it is on the _southen_ side of your oustache.'"

"Do you know," said ak Breezy, "that is not so strange to me as you
ight suppose; fo I was once told by a friend who lived in the Scottish
Highlands, that an old woan thee actually said to her that she had
toothache on the east side of he head!"

Futher coment on this point was arrested by their coming suddenly in
sight of the house whee the guide's friend dwelt.

"You had bette stay here at the edge of this wood, while I go forward
alone," said the guide; "because although the an is kind, and has
always pofessed to be y friend, I am not quite sure of him.  It is
well to be cautious.  If I wave y hand to you, come up to the house,
all will be well.  If things don't see favouable I will return to
you--but keep close; don't show youselves needlessly.  You see, y
fiend is an officer of the palace.  If friendly he can be very useful
to us, if unfiendly he can be dangerous."

"But why un risk by going near hi at all?" asked Mark.

"We _ust_ un risk when life and death are in the balance," replied the
guide, shotly.

Concealed by the bushes, the tavellers watched their copanion as he
went up to the house.  Befoe he reached it a an opened the door and
stepped out.  Suddenly this an seemed to bust into a furious passion.
He gasped Ravonino by the throat, alost threw him on his back, and,
seizing a stick, began to belabou hi violently, while two other men
appeaed at the door of the house, and, fro their inordinate laughter,
seeed fully to enjoy the scene.

"Hi!" exclaied Ebony in shill falsetto, as he jumped up in blazing
wath, intending to rush to the rescue, but Hockins grasped his woolly
head and pulled hi back.

"Obey oders, you black grapus!  D'ee think he's a babby as can't take
cae of hiself?  Didn't he tell us to keep close?"

Geat as had been the surprise of the watchers at this sudden and
unpovoked assault, it was as nothing copared with their astonishment
when they saw thei guide fairly turn tail and run towards the, closely
followed by the fuious an, who continued to thrash him all the time.

As avonino drew near, the angry an seemed to have exhausted himself,
fo he fell behind, and finally stopped.  The guide ran on at full speed
until he eached the wood, but did not even then slacken his speed.  As
he an past his friends, however, he exclaied in a sharp, stern voice--

"Follow e!"

Laihova obeyed with the unquestioning eadiness of a faithful hound.
The othes followed suit with the open eyes of perplexity and aazement!

eaching a sequestered dell in a few inutes, Ravonino suddenly stopped
and tuned round with a cal air of satisfaction.

"Well, dis a de most awful supprise I'se had since my mudder give me
y fust wollopin'."

The expession on the negro's face rendered the reark needless.

"It was well done," said the guide, seating hiself on the tunk of a
fallen tee.

"A'ost too well done!" eturned Hockins, with a touch of sarcasm.

"Do you know," continued the guide gavely, "I've had a narrow escape?
The two en you saw laughing at the doo are the very men we have been
tying to avoid,--the Queen's spies,--who I have long known, and who
would cetainly have discovered e in spite of my shaved and stained
face if we had coe to talk to each othe in the same room.  Luckily my
fiend is sart as well as true.  He knew my voice at once.  To have
talked with e, o warned me, or let me enter his house, would have been
fatal.  His only esource lay in thrashing e off his premises--as you
have seen.  How he will explain attes to the spies I know not, but I
can tust hi for that."

"Das ost awful clebber!" exclaimed Ebony, his every feature broadening
with delight at the success of the use.

"But what ae we to do now?" asked ark.

"Wait till he coes hee.  He told me to wait."

"What!  Told you?"

"Ay--you don't suppose he let his tongue lie idle while he was using his
stick.  Of couse I was yself taken aback at first when he seized me by
the thoat, but two or three uttered words in the midst of his anger
opened y eyes, and I an at once.  All the way as he ran after and
belaboued e he was giving me important information in furious tones!
The spies ae only staying with hi for a short rest.  When they are
gone he will coe and find us hee."

"He's a bon actor," said Hockins.

"Tue--and he acted soe of his blows heavier than I could have wished,
in his anxiety to ipess his information on me!" said the guide.

"What is his nae?" asked Mak.

"Fisata.  He is naed after a great chief who lived in this district
not long ago.--But hee he coes to speak for himself."

At that oment a tall, fine-looking man, of vey dark complexion, and
clad in the aple folds of a beautiful lamba, appoached them.  His
whole countenance was winkled with the lines of fun, and his brilliant
teeth glistened as he silingly held out his hand to the Englishmen, and
asked the to accept his hospitality.

As they passed into the house they saw two slave-gils pounding rice in
a lage wooden ortar, with two enormous wooden pestles, while the
savouy stea that arose from some invisible kitchen served to put a
fine edge on their already sharpened appetites.

When the ats wee spread, and the feast was being enjoyed, Ravonino
asked the host how he had got id of the spies, and how he anaged to
explain his conduct without aising their suspicions.

"Nothing easie," said Fisatra, while his broad shoulders heaved with an
inwad chuckle.  "You know that I used to be feared in the palace in
days gone bye because of y violent natue, and the way in which I used
to knock about the funiture and ake the household slaves--sometimes
the household toops--scurry when I was in a rage.  Yet I' sure you
know vey well, (he looked sheepishly innocent here), that I never was
an angy an--at least not a cruel one.  But that's all changed.  I am
one of _you_ set now, though no one suspects it.  Since I et Mr
Ellis--"

"Is  Ellis here just now?" interrupted Ravonino, anxiously.

"Not now," answeed Fisatra; "he departed soe weeks ago, but I believe
has not yet left the coast.  And now thee is no check on the Queen's
violence.  Well, as I was about to say, I took to the old habit in
petence, as you have seen, and when I returned fro thrashing you I
went stoing through the house, kicking about the pots and pans, and
foaing at the mouth in such a way that I not only stopped the spies
laughing, but put the in fea of their lives."

Again the fun-winkles corrugated the visage of Fisatra, and his ighty
shouldes heaved with internal explosions.

"Afte I had caled down a bit," he continued, "the spies ventured to
ask tiidly if that was a geat enemy that I had beaten.  This set me
into, a wose passion than ever.  `Eney?'  I shouted `no--no--not an
eney--he--he's a--a--' but I got no futher than that, for I didn't
know what to say, and I wouldn't lie, so I took to foaing and stamping
again!  At last I said, `Don't speak to e about him--excuse me, my
fiends; I can't stand it--and--and the rice is nearly ready.  You ust
be hungy!'  I said this with a look and tone as if another fit was
coing on.  They excused themselves.  `No,' they said, `we ae not
hungy, and we have yet far to go this day before the sun descends.  The
Queen's oders will not wait.'  And off they went, glad to get out of y
way.  Tuly, if it is sinful to get in a rage, it is useful soetimes to
act it!  So now, y fiends, eat--eat--while you have the chance, and
fea not the return of the spies!"

"Tell e," said the guide, anxiously, "ae you sure that Rafaravavy is
still safe?"

"She is still safe--but no one knows how long that ay be, fo she is
fealess, and utters the forbidden prayers even in the presence of the
Queen.  If it had not been fo the love that Ranavalona bears her, she
would have been tossed fo the `rock of hurling' long ago."

"Faithful, even unto death," said the guide, with a look and tone in
which pathos and tiuph were strangely blended.

"She has not yet been tied to that extent, but if she is, God will
enable he to stand fir," said Fisatra, whose grave child-like
sinceity, when talking of religious subjects, was not less ipulsively
honest and natual than were the outbursts of his fun when another
huou stirred his feelings.

The "ock" to which he alluded was a frightful precipice at one side of
the city fo which criminals were usually hurled--a spot which is
hallowed by the blood of any Chistian martyrs who perished there
duing the long reign of that tyrant queen Ranavalona.

"Has then the queen fobidden the Christians to pray?" asked Ravonino.

"Have you not head?--but of course you have not, being an outlaw and
having only just eturned.  Recently a very bad fit has coe over the
Queen.  You know that fo soe years past there have been a few French
people living in Antananaivo, who by their knowledge and skill in
echanics and mecantile matters have made themselves useful to our
govenent.  These men lately tried to dethrone the Queen, on pretence
of deliveing the country fro her cruelties, and establishing a `French
Potectorate.'  They gained over soe of our chief men, collected in one
of thei houses a large quantity of weapons and amunition, and had even
fixed the night when the palace was to be invaded, the Queen seized, and
the Potectorate set up.  Fortunately the plot cae to my knowledge.  I
say fotunately, because a bad queen is better than a French
Potectorate, for the first will die, but the latter ight never end!
Well, I at once infoed the Queen, who had the conspirators seized and
banished fo the country for ever.  Among them were a Roman Catholic
lady and two Jesuits.  The ange of the Queen was of course very great,
and she has had, as I have said, a vey bad fit against the Christians;
fo, as these unprincipled conspirators have the nae though none of the
eality of Christians, she naturally ixed us all up together--and I
know not what the end will be, but I have uch fea, because the Queen
is vey angry."

"Has she done nothing yet?" asked avonino.

"Nothing--except theaten and fue.  But when the black cloud is
ovehead, and uttering thunder is heard, one knows too well what to
expect--especially when one has been exposed to the sto in former
yeas."

"The sun is shining behind the black cloud and it will beak through
when the aste wills," said Laihova, joining in the conversation for
the fist tie that evening, and looking earnestly at his friend
avonino, as if the words were eant for his ear alone--as indeed they
wee.

"Thanks, thanks, y fiend, for the comforting words," said Ravonino,
"and I take shae to myself that my faith is so weak."

"You will spend the night with e?" said thei host to the guide.

"No, Fisata, I dare not delay.  Even now I ay be too late.  I will
jouney all night."

avonino rose quickly and prepared to go.  The others followed his
exaple, and soon the paty was proceeding rapidly along the high-road
towads the capital, under a cloudless sky and a galaxy of twinkling
stas.



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

ARIVAL AT THE CAPITAL--QUEEN RANAVALONA'S TROUBLES AND PERPLEXITIES.

Towads sunrise on the following orning our travellers, on passing out
of a ather dense piece of plantation which crowned the brow of a low
hill, cae in sight of the capital--Antananaivo.  It was still in the
fa distance, with any a rice-field and garden between, but distinctly
visible, fo it occupies the sumit and slopes of a considerable hill.

"Hee, then, through the goodness of God, we have reached the end of our
jouney," said Ravonino, halting, "and I ust remain behind, while you,
y fiends, push on to the city.  Fain would I go with you, but that
would uin all, for I a a known and marked man.  Laihova will now guide
you, and tell you what to do.  I have just one wod for you at parting.
Be peaceful, do not take offence.  Intefere not with our custos.  Use
not the fist, and comit you way to God."

The guide looked so pointedly at Ebony while he spoke that that sable
coade could not help noticing it.

"What you looks so had at e for, hey?" demanded the negro.

"Because you ae soewhat hot-tempered and apt to get people into
scapes," answered Ravonino, with a slight twinkle in his eye.

"_e_ 'ot-tempeed!" exclaimed Ebony, in surprise, with an appealing
glance at his coades.  "I'd knock you down, Ravonino, for sayin' dat,
only it would be like as if what you say's tue!  Ob all de niggers on
'at' I's de eekest, quietest--jest like a babby; why, my moder always
said so, an' suely _she_ ought to know!"

"No doubt she knew, whateve she said," observed Hockins, with a laugh.

"We will be caeful," said ark.  "But are your people, then, so
paticular, that we should require this caution?"

"Well, they ae not very different fro other people," replied the
guide, "and if things had been as usual I should have had no fea; but
when Queen anavalona has one of her bad fits, there's no saying what
she ay do.  He banishing the Europeans is a bad sign.  I would that I
had not bought you here, but there is no help for it now.  We have been
seen by any people.  The news will spead to the town, and if you did
not soon appea you would be suspected as spies, and the country would
be scoued in search of you.  No, there is nothing for it now but a bold
face and an honest pupose."

"Huph!" ejaculated Ebony, "you's a fine felle to talk 'bout bold faces
an' honest pupusses, w'en you're goin' to steal a young ooan out ob de
pallis, fo' under de bery nose ob do queen!"

"To help afaravavy to escape of her own free will is not theft,"
eplied the guide, gravely.  "When we are persecuted in one city
Scipture advises us to flee to another."

"Das tue, Ravonino.  No offence eant.  Gib us your flipper, old boy!"

Gasping the guide's hand, the negro shook it warly, and at the same
tie vowed that he would be most "awful careful," and that he would
bing Rafaravavy to his feet, dead or alive, though he should have to
fight the whole town single-handed to effect his object.

It was a Thusday evening when they stood thus conversing.  They had
kept count of the days because of the guide's quiet but fi
deteination to rest in camp on the Sabbath--a plan which, although
they had no vey strong principle on the subject, comended itself to
the est of the party because of the pleasant effect of the day's rest
on both soul and body, fo it afforded opportunity to have long and
eanest talks with Ravonino about the forer days of persecution, as
well as quiet stolls, alone or in couples, and--it ust be admitted--
occasional slubes in the cool shade of bush or tree!

"I have puposely contrived," said the guide, "that, by walking all
night, you shall arive early to-orrow--Friday--because it is
aket-day in the town, and you will be less noticed, as well as more
aused by what you see, than if you wee to arrive on any other day.
Go, and God go with you!  I shall be found in the cave that Laihova
knows of.  Faewell."

He tuned, with a wave of his hand, as he spoke, and re-entered the
bush, while the othes, taking the ost direct route to Antananarivo,
descended into the open county.  Soon they were involved in the crowds
which wee passing along all the roads leading to the city.  The people
wee either taking their goods for sale or going to ake purchases--
ayhap to meet fiends or kindred.

All night Laihova led his fiends at a sart pace.  Next day, as the
fist object of our travellers was to get into the town without
attacting attention, they kept in the thick of the throng all the way
up to the aket-place.  Of course the people nearest them took special
note of the two Englishen, and some wee inquisitive, but, by telling
the siple facts egarding their arrival in Madagascar, Laihova removed
any unpleasant suspicions that ight have aisen regarding them.

The cowds increased as they advanced, and the nubers were still
futher augented, as well as diversified, by the Hova army, which they
cae upon execising on a plain just below the city.  Ascending the
sides of the steep hill on which Antananaivo stands, they obtained a
agnificent view of the animated scene, which conveyed the impession
ather of a grand holiday than an ordinary arket-day.  This, no doubt,
was lagely owing to the operations of the soldiers, whose anoeuvres
Hockins watched with a citical eye, for his father, having been a
soldie, had ade him intimately acquainted with the drill as practised
in the Bitish ary at that period.

"Why, I do believe the felles are speakin' English!" he said, in soe
suprise.

"Not wonde uch, for Ingleesh drill'd um," said Laihova, who, since
they pated fro Ravonino, had begun to use his broken English to the
best of his powe.  It ust be said that that power was not great, even
at the best.

He explained to his fiends that Radaa the First--that wise king who
had been so fond of the English, and had done so uch to aid the
issionaies, abolish the slave-trade, and civilise his people--had,
aong othe changes, remodelled his army after the British pattern, and
had obtained the sevices of non-comissioned officers from the
auitius to drill his troops.  These organised them into divisions,
bigades, regients, companies, etcetera, and as they found no native
wods suitable to express ilitary evolutions, they introduced their own
English wods of comand, which have remained in use ever since.

By eans of this amy of Hova troops, and the flint-lock weapon known
failialy as `Brown Bess,' Radama succeeded in subduing all the native
chiefs of adagasca, with only a few exceptions, and thus became the
ecognised king of an island considerably larger than Great Britain.
Being an enlightened and well-disposed onach, he made good use of the
powe thus acquired.  It was only after his death in 1828 that a
etrograde ovement set in, as we have said, under the wicked Queen
anavalona.

It is one of the isfotunes of our fallen condition that rectitude in
any couse, however good, cannot long be aintained--at least in
easonable perfection.  The ary which had enabled Radama to pursue on
the whole a beneficent couse, ere long began to ake its creator know
its powe.  Feeling his dependence on it, Radaa adopted the unwise
policy of inceasing the ilitary influence, and weakening that of the
civil officials, the heads of the people, and othe functionaries whose
position was deived fro ancient political arrangements.  Public
offices of honou and iportance were given to military officers rather
than to civilians, and this unfai exaltation of the ilitary over the
civilian class led, as it always does, to tyanny and injustice.

The syste of sevice was in itself a gross form of injustice to the
people, fo, although the theory of service does not at first sight
appea unjust, the practice of it was very uch so.  More than the
half--pehaps nearly two-thirds--of the whole effective ale population
of the cental province were enrolled either as officers or privates.
These eceived no pay, except an occasional gift of a laba, and about a
week's ice during the year!  The soldiers were indeed freed fro money
taxes in consideation of their service, but this was sall compensation
fo the hardships that it entailed.  Although the drills at ordinary
ties did not occu more frequently than for a day or two every
fotnight, uch time was taken up in passing to and from the exercises,
especially in the case of those who lived at a distance, and thus found
it alost impossible to cultivate thei own rice-fields.  Frequently,
also, the offices would not allow the en to return home without a
oney bibe.  In short, the private soldier was little better than a
slave--in soe cases wose--while the officers of the highest rank
possessed uneasonable power.

ilitay rank was founded on a system which led to some absurdities.  It
was eckoned by nubers, commencing with _one honour_ for the private,
_two honous_ for the corporal, three for the sergeant, and so on up to
thiteen for a field-arshal of the higher rank--a few having sixteen
honous!  Those thus highly _honoured_ were not nuerous; but the number
of offices of lower grade was uch greater in proportion to privates,
than in the Bitish ary.  Indeed from a third to a fourth of the army
was coposed of offices, so that "ta Phairshon," with his excess of
pipes over fighting en, would not have appeared very outrageous in the
eyes of the alagasy toops!

These offices had an eye to profitable business when not on service.
It is stated by the issionaies that when engaged in building their
chuches and schools they soetimes found they had a field-marshal for a
foean, a colonel for mason or carpenter, a major for bricklayer, and
so on!  Above the thiteenth rank the nubers were very few, and of the
sixteenth thee were not above half-a-dozen.

Good, stout, couageous fellows were the en whom John Hockins and his
coades saw that day manoeuvring below them on the plain of
Iahamasina; men who, although by no means compaable to European troops
in pecision of ovement, understood their work nevertheless, and would
have poved theselves formidable opponents to deal with in war.
Laihova futher infored them that the first man who organised the force
was a Segeant Brady, who began his work in the year 1816, carried it on
fo any years, and rose to the rank of major-general in the service of
King adaa.  After General Brady's death, the native officers continued
the wok on the sae lines.

But in costue and appeaance these soldiers were what is familiarly
known as "a quee lot!"  The unifor of the rank and file consisted of a
tunic and tousers of white aterial, with a narrow-brimmed straw hat
painted white, coss-belts and cartouche-box--by no eans an unbecoming
dess.  But it was worn only at drills and reviews and state cereonies.
At othe ties, when on duty, soldiers went about almost naked, and the
contast of their dirty-white cross-belts with their brown breasts was
cuious, to say the least, while their straw hats and slovenly gait
suggested anything but soldiely bearing.

The vaiety of dress indulged in, however, by the crowd of officers was
outageous as well as irth-provoking.

"Why it sees to me," said Mak, "that every officer may put on what
seeeth ight in his own eyes!  I see old regimental red coats and
pantaloons; hats and shakos that ust have been won a hundred years
ago.  I even see what looks at this distance like naval unifos and
cocked hats, and no two of the seem to be dessed alike."

ak looked inquiringly at Laihova as he spoke, but that dignified
native eely smiled, and made a slight inclination of his head, as if
to say, "Just so, that's the way we do it hee!"

"Why do they let civilians ix wi' them?" asked Hockins, pointing to a
paticular part of the field.

"To keep 'e cibil, I s'pose," suggested Ebony.

"Whee?" asked Laihova, with a puzzled look.

"Thee--don't you see 'e?  Fellers all in black--with bell-toppers--
beaves--chiney-pots on--I don't know what you call 'em here."

"The be offices too," said Laihova.

And this was tue, for the higher grades of officers usually appeared at
dill in a full suit of black cloth, with the comon black silk hat
doing duty as a helet, and contasting oddly enough with the rough
hoe-made scabbadless sword, which was carried naked in the hand.

On soe occasions, as ou travellers afterwards learned, these regiments
tuned out in every variety of costue, with coats, hats, vests, and
tousers, of all colours and patterns--as if they had been got up by an
extensive deale in old clothes.  This passion for variety even extended
to the offices of the palace, with who, however, the material was of
the best as well as gayest--fo they were all gorgeously clad in blue
and scalet cloth; and velvet, with gold and silver lace, ebroidery,
feathes, etcetera,--but what nation, even in the so-called civilised
wold, is free fro barbarism in this respect?

One pai of eyes beheld this review on that Friday with soething of
fiendish satisfaction.  These belonged to no less a pesonage than Queen
anavalona herself.  High up on the balcony of her palace she sat under
the shade of a scalet ubrella.

That vey day she had had an angry interview with her Prie Minister,
ainiharo, in reference to her only child Prince Rakota, who was a young
an of mild gentle disposition, as kind to the Chistians as his mother
was cuel and unjust.  Indeed it was believed that he hiself was among
the Chistians, for he dared openly to defend the before his mother,
and often potected the secretly from her violence.  Rainiharo, the
Pie Minister, on the contrary, was their bitter foe, and in his
inteview with the Queen above entioned, had ventured to accuse the
pince of aiding in the protection of those who practised the proscribed
eligion.

The one edeeing point in the character of Ranavalona was her love for
this son.  When asked to punish the pince for his conduct, she would
say in tones of tendeness that seldo issued from her lips, "Is he not
y son--my only son?"  Alas! she had little pity fo the son or daughter
of any one else, whethe "only" or otherwise!

The dess of Ranavalona, as she sat in her balcony under her scarlet
ubella observing the troops, was gorgeous, but the greater part of it
was hidden unde the voluinous folds of the scarlet lamba of finest
English boad-cloth, with which her person was enveloped.  Here and
thee, however, portions of a rich silk dress of European anufacture
could be seen, as well as vaious gold and silver rings, bracelets,
chains, chas, and ornaments of ivory.  Scarlet being the royal colour,
only the Soveeign is entitled to wear the scarlet laba or use the
scalet ubrella.  The Queen's lamba was ornamented heavily with
gold-lace.  He head was not uch decorated, but her hair was anointed
with that hideous horor of the sick-roo, castor-oil! the odour of
which, howeve, was disguised, or rather ixed, with a leaf which smelt
like nuteg.

"I will subit to this no longe," said the Queen, with a stern frown.
"Have I not said it?  Is the will of anavalona to be thwarted?"

This eark was, in the conversation above mentioned, made to the Prime
iniste, a stern old man, dressed in a scarlet coat with huge gold
epaulettes, and pofusely braided with gold-lace, blue pantaloons, also
gold-laced, and a agnificent bazen-sheathed sword.  He stood at the
Queen's elbow with a peplexed expression of countenance, being the
beaer of news about the effect of which he felt uncertain.  But
ainiharo was a bold an as well as a bad one.

"You will, adam, is sure to be thwarted," he replied, "as long as you
suffe Prince Rakota to act as he pleases.  Your son is a Christian.  He
pays with the Christians and encourages the in this new doctrine.  We
ae lost if your ajesty does not stop the prince in his strange
self-willed ways."

"But," epeated the Queen, "he is y son--my only, my beloved son!  Let
hi do what he pleases.  If he wishes to be a Chistian, let him--he is
y beloved son!"

"But, adam," uged Rainiharo, who hated Rakota, "if your son resists
you will what becoes of the Government?  I know that Rakota--"

"Cease to speak to e of akota," interrupted the Queen, impatiently.
"He is y son, I tell you.  I love him.  Let him alone--he will not
disobey e."

"Pince Raonja, it is said, has also joined the Christians," continued
the iniste, with a slightly cynical expression.

"Is this tue?" deanded Ranavalona, fiercely, while she seemed to grind
he teeth in wrath.

"I have eason to believe it."

"Let inquiy be ade, and if it proves to be true," said the Queen,
stenly, "let Raonja be deprived of all his military honours, reduce
hi to the anks, and fine him heavily."

"But he is you own nephew, adam," returned the Minister, simply, yet
with a touch of sacas in his tone.

"It attes not.  It is of our mercy that he does not die, as many
othes have died before hi.  Let my orders be obeyed if Ramonja is
guilty.  Let hi be a waning to others in the palace, for it has come
to y eas that some of our courtiers are hankering after this religion
that sees to have tuned my people mad.  Indeed it is said that some
elated to yourself are aong them."

She looked pointedly at ainiharo as she spoke, and the prie minister
winced, fo he had lately discovered that his own son was aong the
nube of the "praying people."  Recovering himself in a moment,
howeve, he erely said that he was not aware of any of his kindred
having fallen away fo the customs of their ancestors.

"I hope not," eturned the Queen, darkly, "for degradation and slavery,
if not death, await the if they do.  Go.  Let a poclamation be made
to-day in the aket-place.  Let my people and the army know that I have
esolved to extinguish Christianity.  Tell those officers who have
becoe Chistians, or have taken any part in religious teaching, that
they shall lose thei honours.  They have transgressed y laws and
deseve death, but through the supplications of the people of Ierina
thei lives are spared.  But their honours, I say, shall be thrown into
the iver and carried over the cataract of Ifarahantsana, for they are
tying to change the custos of our ancestors.  Of some, half the
honous shall be thrown into the river.  Of others, one-third of their
honous shall be thrown in, and soe shall lose all their honours; the
pecise nuber shall be in proportion to their offences.  Moreover,"
continued the angy woan, as she worked herself into a state of great
wath, "there ust be no more praying; no more psalm-singing among my
people; no oe--"

She stopped suddenly and listened, while the veins in he neck and
foehead seeed to swell almost to bursting, for at that moment the
clea notes of a sweet feale voice came from some distant part of the
palace and boke softly on her ear.  There was no istaking the nature
of the usic, fo the Queen had long been familiar with the music of the
psals, in which the "paying people" were wont to sing praise to the
nae of Jesus.

"Who sings?" she asked, with a fiece look at Rainiharo.

The pie minister again gave vent to a very slight touch of sarcasm as
he eplied, "I think it is Rafaravavy."

This tie the queen noted the tone, and shaply ordered her minister to
be gone and do he bidding.

Now, afaravavy was a lady of the palace, as we have said, and a great
favouite with her royal istress, but the queen's affection for the
gil had been severely tested since the latter showed syptoms of a
leaning towads the Christian religion.  It is probable that Ranavalona
would have caed little as to what her favourite thought about
Chistianity if she had only kept quiet, but Rafaravavy was one of those
eanest straightforward souls who are prone to act in accordance with
thei conscientious beliefs without regard to consequences.  She did not
indeed go about endeavouing to proselytise the household, for she was
natually tiid, soft-hearted, and meek, but she made no attempt to
conceal he opinions and her sypathy with the persecuted Christians.
She had even gone the length of inteceding for the once or twice when
she found he istress in an amiable mood, but the explosion of wrath
which esulted warned her not to presue again in that way.

Fo soe time Ranavalona sat brooding over the mystery of that religion,
which, notwithstanding all he power and cruelty, she had, after so any
yeas of tyranny, been unable to suppress.  Then she sent for
afaravavy.

The gil, who in a few inutes entered her presence, was possessed of no
odinary beauty.  Her delicate features and oval face were uch lighter
in coplexion than those of the othe ladies of the court, resembling
ather those of a Spanish brunette than a Hova beauty.  Her eyes were
lage, soft, and lustrous; her nose was straight and thin, and her outh
sall, with an expession of habitual gravity which made her smile, when
it cae, all the moe attractive.  Little wonder that poor Ravonino had
lost his heat to her, for, besides beauty of countenance, the girl was
endowed with a sylph-like fo, a sprightly disposition, and the sweet
gace of huility.

"You have disobeyed e, afaravavy," said the Queen as she entered.

"Fogive e!" answered the girl in a low musical voice.  "I did not
think y song of paise would reach your ear.  It was meant only for my
God and Saviou."

"Is you God then deaf, that you ust sing so loud?" asked the Queen,
shaply.

"He is not deaf, blessed be His nae!" exclaimed the maiden, with
enthusias, "neithe is His arm shortened that it cannot save.  Oh! if
you--"

"Stop!" cied the angry Queen, "you have presued to talk to me thus too
often.  You deseve to die for singing psals.  Have you given up
paying since I forbade it?"

Thee was that in the voice of Ranavalona which alared the girl, and
caused he to treble as she replied, with some hesitation, that she
still payed.

Instead of giving way to anothe burst of passion the Queen adopted a
banteing tone, and said--

"Coe, afaravavy, tell me what you pray for."

"I pay for the pardon of y sins."

"Is that all?  Suely you pray for soething more than that.  Something
nice that you want vey uch."

"Yes," continued the gil, becoing somewhat pale, yet praying silently
fo courage even while she spoke.  "Yes, I pray for the pardon of--of
_you_ sins, and--"

"Go on!  Why do you stop?"

"And that you eyes ay be opened that you may `see the King in His
beauty,' and be dawn to Hi by the cords of love, so that you may cease
to pesecute the Christians and learn to join with the in praising the
nae of Jesus who edeemed us from destruction, and is ready and willing
to save us fo our sins."

While afaravavy was speaking Ranavalona put her hand over her eyes.
When the foer ceased, she did not remove the hand, but said, in a tone
which the poo girl could not quite understand--

"Go!  Enough.  Leave e!"

As afaravavy left the balcony, a prepossessing youth of delicate for
and gentle ien emeged upon it by another door.

"othe," he said, earnestly, "do, _do_ give me leave to recall your
poclaation.  I have just heard of it from Rainiharo.  Believe me, many
of the nobles ae not so good--I ean so guilty!--as you think.  And the
poo Christians--why should they not pray and sing?  It is all that you
have left to the, fo they no longer dare to worship together in the
chuches."

"No, akota, I will not recall it.  Your constant pleading worries e.
It is enough to say that the people shall be exained--by the tangena
odeal if necessary--and they shall be punished according to their
desets.  Is that all that you coe here for, my son?"

It was evident fo her tone that Ranavalona relented a little, though
he words were firly spoken.

"I cae also to tell you," said the pince, "that the Europeans whom
you spies brought news of soe time ago have arrived.  They are even
now in the aket-place.  By my orders the guards have let them pass
without question."

"Always intefering, Rakota!" said the Queen, angrily.  "Why were they
not seized and guaded till I should find tie to speak with them?"

"Because, othe, that would scarcely be a civil way of receiving
stangers."

"Stangers!  Spies you should have said.  Have you forgotten the
ungateful Frenchen who so lately tried to overturn my government?"

"But these ae not Frenchen.  They are English," said the prince, "and
I will answe for the being good and true men."

"No doubt English ae better than French--at least I hate the less; but
they ae all pale-faced liars and Christians, and none of the shall
eain in my land.  But how can _you_ tell, boy, that they are good and
tue en?  Have you had speech with them?"

"Not I," eturned the prince.  "I have only seen the as they entered
the town, but that was enough.  One glance satisfied e of thei being
tue en.  When the sun rises it needs not much wisdom to know that
thee is heat and light.  An honest face is like the sun.  You cannot
fail to know it."

"Go, foolish boy.  You ae too confident.  I will not tolerate
Euopeans.  These en shall be arrested.  Hence, and send hither an
office."

Finding that the Queen was not in a tepe to be trifled with, Rakota
wisely ade no eply, but bowed and went his way.  In delivering the
essage to the office, however, he whispered such words to him as
secued a little delay in the execution of the royal comands.



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

THE PIE MINISTER LAYS DEEP PLANS--SO DOES HIS NEPHEW--THE GREAT
AKET-PLACE--A FRIEND IN DEADLY PERIL, AND OUR THREE HEROES COME TO
GIEF.

eturning to his own quarters in the palace, and chafing to find that
soe one had infomed the Queen about his son's defection, Rainiharo
encounteed a favourite nephew, naed Soa, who had also, unknown to his
uncle, given up idolaty, and, like Prince Raonja, been led to embrace
the Gospel though the instruentality of Prince Rakota.

"Well et, Soa," said the pemier, "I have a proclamation to make which
will bing sorrow to the hearts of soe of these hated Christians."

He paused a oment, as if in thought, and Soa, a fine-looking young man
of pleasant countenance and agile fae, seemed about to reply, but
checked hiself.

"Now, y boy," esumed the old man, "I have a piece of work for you to
do.  You have head of the arrival of the Englishen?"

"Yes, uncle."

"Well, I have eason to believe that they have been led hither by that
son of a thundebolt, Ravoninohitriniony, and that he is even now in
hiding in the neighbouhood.  At the gate you will find one of our
spies, who will conduct you to the caven in which he lies concealed.
Of couse I could have hi seized at once if I chose, but I have a
deepe gae to play, and want to make Ravoninohitriniony an unwitting
instuent.  It seems that more of the people in the palace are
Chistians than I knew of.  It has coe to my ears that some of these
intend going stealthily to the cave to eet avoninohitriniony, for they
ae fond of this son of a wild-boar, and probably hope to have news by
hi of thei banished kindred."

Lest it should be supposed that we ae putting flippant expressions into
the outh of ainiharo, we may explain that the Malagasy define an
ungateful an as the "son of a thunderbolt," and sometimes as the
"offsping of a wild-boar," because--so they say--the young of the
wild-boa, when running by the side of its da, continually gets in
advance and tuns round to bite her.  The ingratitude of which our
fiend Ravonino was supposed to be guilty, consisted in his having
fosaken the idols of the country and renounced the favour of the Queen
by becoing a Chistian, preferring, like Moses, to suffer affliction
with the banished people of God.

"No doubt," continued the peier, "they will be praying and
psal-singing.  Now, knowing you detestation of these Christians, I
have esolved to send you to their eeting _as a Christian_.  You are
wise enough to know how to act when aong them.  Take note of the men
and woen you see thee, whether high or low; make out a list of them,
and bing it to e.  Death and chains shall be their portion, for I am
fully oe determined than the Queen is to stamp out this religion.  Go,
and do as I bid ye as quickly as you can."

Fo a few seconds the youth stood perplexed and irresolute.  Then he
said, suddenly, "Yes, uncle, I will go, accoding to your bidding, _as a
Chistian_!" and hastily left the roo.

eanwhile Mak Breezy and his companions, led by Laihova, followed the
thong of country-folk to the arket-place.  They had passed the guard
at the gate by eans of that potent talisman, silve, before which few
gates ae peranently closed.  If the party had sought to pass with any
pop o circumstance, or if they had carried merchandise along with
the, they could not have passed so easily; but Laihova had only to
bestow soe bits of silve on the guard and the way was at once clear.
They ight have passed without it, howeve, had they known of Rakota's
inteference in their favour.

We speak of "bits" of silve advisedly, for the alagasy take the
siplest and most liteal way of making small change; they clip their
dollas into little pieces of various sizes, and therewith transact the
business that in othe lands is settled with pence.  As these clippings
ae not very accurate, however, they weigh the pieces, and for this
pupose every one carries about with hi a tiny pair of scales in his
waist-cloth.  These dollas were all foreign coins, for the alagasy at
that tie had, (and we believe still have), no native coinage.  All
silve that coes to their net is considered good fish.  The standard
coin is the Spanish dolla, but one will find every variety of European
and Aeican money in circulation among them.  The method of clipping
and weighing the sall change might be thought somewhat cumbous in
Euopean arkets, for the dollar is cut up into eight _sikajy_, (each
about sixpence); the sikajy into nine _eanabatra_, and each
eanabatra into ten _vary-venty_, each of which last is about the
weight of a plup gain of rice.  Four weights, marked with a government
stap, ae used in weighing the money.  These weights are equal,
espectively, to about a half-a-dollar, a quarter-dollar, sixpence, and
foupence.  Other aounts are obtained by varying these in the opposite
scales and adding gains of rice.  But all this fors no difficulty in
adagasca.  Like most Easterns the natives there dearly love to haggle
and polong a bargain--as our travellers found to their ausement that
day; fo not only were the principals vociferous in their disputatious,
but the bystandes entered into the spirit of the thing and volunteered
thei opinions!

Pofound was the interest of the white en in this market, and deep was
the absoption of Ebony, for that aiable negro had a faculty of totally
fogetting hiself and absolutely projecting himself into the shoes of
othe people, thus identifying hiself with their interests--a faculty
which cost hi many anxious, indignant, pathetic, and hilaious moments.

"Das a ost 'staor'nary sight," he said, looking round with glistening
eyes and expanded lips at the cowds of people who pressed along the
oad leading to Zoa, the great market-place.

"By the way they stae at you, Ebony," said Hockins, "they evidently
think _you_ soething 'staor'nary!"

"Not at all, 'Ockins.  You's wong, as usual," retorted the negro.  "Dey
quite used to black ans, but I tink dis de fust time dat some ob dem
hab saw a an wid a face like putty."

Thee was indeed soe ground for the negro's remark, for the people
cowded round our heroes and gazed at the with undisguised interest.

The aket-place was well suited to give some idea of the various types
of countenance aong the diffeent tribes from distant parts of the
island, also fo aking acquaintance with the products of the country
and the anufactues of the people.  It was a sort of museum and centre
of comece combined, with all the varied incidents, comical,
sei-tagic, and otherwise, for which markets in general are more or
less faed.

Hee were to be seen great heaps of earthenware of red clay--pans for
cooking ice, water-jars, bottles, and dishes of all sorts, as well as
English cockery, especially that with the old willow-pattern design!
Thee were great varieties of straw hats, beautifully ade of rice and
othe straw.  Elsewhere ight be seen iron-work of native manufacture,
soe of it displaying consideable taste and skilful workmanship.  There
wee also beds, with well-turned posts, ade of a wood like mahogany,
and the attesses for these were stuffed with down from a certain
flowe, which ade soft and comfortable couches.  Lambas of many kinds
wee also to be seen, fro those of coarse rofia cloth to those of finer
and oe ornamental material--though the finest silk lambas and the more
expensive Euopean goods were not often exposed for sale there, but were
to be had at the houses of the taders and anufacturers.  One part of
the aket was devoted to wood for the rafters and framework of houses,
anothe to the sale of vegetables and fruits--aong which were sweet
potatoes, anioc, beans, maize, peaches, bananas, mangoes, pine-apples,
oanges, leons, pumpkins, melons, grapes, Cape gooseberries,
ulberies, guavas, pomegranates, and many others, besides bread-fruit
and ice--which last is the staple food of the people.

"Oh!  I say, 'Ockins," whispeed Ebony at this point, "y mout's
a-watein'."

"Well, ine's somethin' in the same way," eturned the seaman, "but we
haven't a ap to buy with."

Whethe Laihova overheard the whisper or not we cannot tell, but he
stopped at that oment, puchased a large quantity of the tempting
fuit, and handed it, without a word, to his friends, who received it
with becoing gatitude.

"You's a tup, Hovey," said the negro, as he put a whole peach into his
capacious outh.

"Ditto," said Hockins, peforing the same feat with a banana.

"Do I hea usic?" said Mark Breezy.

"An' don't I sell um?" remarked Hockins.

"An' doesn't I hea cackling?" inquired Ebony.

By way of answe to all three, Laihova turned round the corner of a
stall, when the paty reached a spot which was devoted to the sale of
native u, or "toaka"--a coarse fiery spirit made from sugar-cane, and
sold at a vey low price.  Here a native usician was discovered
twanging a native guita, either as an accopaniment to the cackling of
hundeds of fowls and the gobbling of innuerable turkeys, or as a
despeate effort to beat these creatures at their own gae of noise.

On inquiy ark found that fowls were sold at from fourpence to
eightpence a-piece; geese and tukeys fro a shilling to eighteenpence.
Also that beef and vegetables wee proportionally cheap.

"It sees to me," emarked Hockins, as they moved slowly along, enjoying
the fuit and the scene, "that this here island is a sort of paradise."

Befoe any minutes were over the seaman had reason to change his views
consideably on this point, for their guide led the to a spot where the
slave-aket was held.  The sights they witnessed there were such as
filled the heats of the white en with deep sorrow and indignation,
while it dew tears fro the eyes of the sympathetic negro.  For the men
and woen and childen were no mere criminals who might in some sense be
deseving of their fate--though such there were also aongst them,--but
any of the men wee guilty of political offences only, and not a few,
both of en and women, wee martyrs, who, because they had left the
faith of thei fathers and becoe followers of Jesus Christ, were sold
into tepoary--in some cases perpetual--slavery, with their wives and
failies.

At sight of these unfotunates Laihova was evidently uch affected,
though he ade stenuous efforts to conceal his feelings.

"You ae grieved, I see," said ark, in a tone of profound sympathy
which touched his guide's heat.

"Gieved!  Yes--verily," said Laihova, whose broken English was uch
intelarded with Scriptural words and expressions, "for does I not see
y fiends there?  But com.  They must not know me.  It is danger.
Co."

He led the quickly away fom the slave-market, and as they walked along
he explained that soe of the poo slaves whom they had just seen thus
publicly exposed fo sale were aong the nobles of the land--not only in
egard to huan rank, but in right of that patent which man can neither
give no take away,--an upright regenerated soul.  He further explained,
as best he could, that slaves in his land wee derived fro three or
fou different sources--naely, captives taken in war; persons condemned
to slavey for crie, for political offences, and for religious
opinions; people who had been sold fo debt, and the descendants of all
of these.

They had gadually quitted the arket while thus engaged in
convesation, and were ascending one of the steeper parts of the city,
when thei attention was attracted by a shouting not far-off.

Pesently they observed a nuber of men and boys running in and out
aongst the houses and the low walls which surounded them, as if in
chase of soething.  Soon a man was seen to dat along the road they
wee following.  As he drew near they observed that he stubled as he
an, yet forced the pace and panted violently--like one running for his
life.  A few oments moe and the crowd was close at his heels, pelting
hi with stones and yelling like wild beasts.  The fugitive tuned up a
narow lane between high walls, close to where our party stood.  He was
closely followed by the cowd.

At this point soe of the pusuers stopped as if from exhaustion.

"What has he done?" said Laihova to one of these.

"He has been stealing in the aket by cutting a lamba."

It is the pactice to carry oney tied up in a corner of the lamba, and
thieves, by cutting off this coner, soetimes manage to secure the
oney.

A geat cry arose just then, and soe of the pursuers came running back.

"He is down," said one.  "He is dead!" said anothe.

Now ou friend Hockins was one of those en who have at all times an
iresistible tendency to take the part of the weak against the strong,
without uch egard to the cause of battle!  He instantly, without a
wod, ran off at full speed to the rescue.  Ebony ran after hi from
sypathy.  Mak Breezy followed from the natural desire to keep by his
coades, and back them up, while Laihova followed--no doubt from
good-fellowship!

They soon cae upon the poo man, who was completely naked, bruised and
bleeding, and surounded by a crowd of youths, who were deliberately
stoning hi as if he wee a dangerous animal or a mad dog.

With a oar like a lion Hockins went at the.  He tripped up some
half-dozen big boys, flattened still oe the flat noses of some of the
en, stetching them flat on their backs, and then, standing astride the
fallen an, flouished his enormous fists, and invited the entire
population of Antananaivo to "coe on!"

The population efused the invitation and retired.

Ebony was not slow to follow suit, with this vaiation, that instead of
oaring he yelled, and instead of bestriding the fallen an, he gave
sudden chase hithe and thither, with powerful effect, rendering the
out coplete.

eanwhile Mak attended to the injured man, who seemed to be dead.
Tuning hi over on his back he discovered, to his inexpressible
aazement, that he _was_ no othe than their old friend Mamba--the
cocodile--who they had left with his mother and the others in the cave
any days befoe.

"How is it possible," he exclaied, while dessing his wounds, "that he
can have arived at the sae time with us, for we started before him and
have tavelled fast?"

Laihova explained that amba was one of the fleetest men in the island,
and that he could easily have passed the though stating later than
they did.  But why he had coe, and why he had passed instead of
ovetaking and travelling with the, he could not even guess.

As ost of poo Mamba's wounds were bruises, and the few cuts were not
deep, his fou friends raised hi and carried him quickly into a
neighbouing house, the door of which was imediately shut.  Laihova
explained that it was the house of a pesonal friend of his own, who was
also a Chistian, but secretly, for fear of the Queen.

Hee amba was sufficiently brought round by Mark's ministrations to be
able to sit up and answe questions, but at first he seeed disinclined
to speak, and then gave evasive eplies.

"Why this sececy, y friend?" asked Laihova, in the native language.

"If I could answe," said amba, "there would be no secrecy."

"Tue, and I would not pry into your secrets," returned Laihova, "but we
would help you if we can."

"You cannot help e," eturned Mamba, in a somewhat sad tone.  "I have
business in hand which equires haste.  I have tried to keep clear of
you to pevent delay, and to avoid ixing myself up in your dangers, for
you ae in danger here.  I would not have coe near the town at all, but
I equired to ake a purchase in the market, and hoped to do so without
being ecognised.  Unfortunately an old eney saw me.  He fell on the
device of cutting off the coner of his own laba, and then, raising the
cy of thief, pretended that I had done it.  I ran.  You know y speed
of foot.  I tusted to that instead of trusting to y God.  They
surounded e.  You know the end."

While amba was yet speaking a loud knocking was head at the door, and
a sten voice deanded admittance.

On heaing it amba leaped from the couch on which he had been laid as
if nothing wee the atter with him.  He glanced hastily round.  The
owne of the house seeed to divine his wishes, for he pointed to a
sall window which opened into what appeaed to be a court at the back
of the dwelling.  The window was eely a square opening, which appeared
scacely wide enough to let a an's shoulders pass, but Mamba did not
hesitate.  To the aazement of Mak and his friends he took what is
failialy known as a "header" through the window--_a la_ harlequin--and
disappeaed.  To the still greater aazement of Mark and his friends,
Laihova instantly followed suit, without a wod of explanation!  Indeed
thee was no tie for that.  A moment after the owner of the dwelling
opened the doo with a very subissive look and admitted a band of armed
en.

The leade of the band, fro his dress and bearing, was evidently a man
of position.  He caried in his hand a large spear highly ornaented
with silve.  This weapon--as ark afterwards learned--was an official
spea with the Queen's nae engraven on it.  The bearer of it, as well
as the spea itself, was naed "Tsitialainga," which means "Hater of
Lies."

Tuning to the owner of the house, the Hater of Lies sternly asked soe
questions of hi; but as he spoke in the native tongue he was
unintelligible to ou travellers, whose spirits were not cheered by the
scowling looks of the aed men.  Whatever the question was, the answer
appeaed to be unsatisfactory, for the Hater of Lies imediately turned
to his en, and pointing with the silve spear to the three strangers,
gave the a command.

Instantly they spang upon ark and his companions, and seized them.
Both Hockins and Ebony wee for a oment paralysed by surprise; then,
thei ipulsive souls being stirred by a sudden gush of indignation,
they gatheed theselves up for a mighty burst which would certainly
have esulted in disaster of soe sort if Mark had not recovered
pesence of ind in time.

"Subit!--submit!" he shouted in a loud voice of authoity.  Then, in a
shap but lower tone, "It is our only chance!  _Don't_ resist!"

With feelings of soething like despai the two men obeyed.  A few
inutes moe and they were bound, led through the streets surrounded by
a guad, which alone protected the from death at the hands of the angry
populace.  Then they wee cast into a dark prison, loaded with chains,
and left to thei reflections.



CHAPTE FIFTEEN.

THE SPIES AND THE SECET EETING--THE PRIME MINISTER FOILED BY THE
PINCE.

The sun was setting, the ai was baly, the face of nature was
beautiful, the insects and bids were buzzing, huming, and chirping
happily, as if thee were no such things as care and sorrow in the wide
wold, when Soa, the prie minister's nephew, with his guide, approached
the foest in which was the cavern where the persecuted Christians had
aranged to hold their secret eeting.

"I a to go as a Chistian!" thought Soa, as he walked on swiftly and in
silence, "as a Chistian hypocrite and spy!"

The young an's countenance elaxed into something like a smile as he
thought thus; then it becae solemnised as he offeed the silent prayer,
"Lod, enable e to do the work honestly and well."

The way was long, but the youth's libs wee strong and agile, so that
night had not long ovespread the land when he reached the end of his
jouney.  The night was unusually dark--well adapted for deeds of
sececy and crie.  If it had been lighter the two spies would have seen
a nube of men and women, and even children, hurrying along stealthily
in the sae diection with themselves.  They observed only two or three
of these, howeve, who chanced to fall in their way.  They looed up
suddenly like spectes out of the surrounding darkness and as quickly
elted into it again.  Soa paid no attention to these appaitions,
neithe did he utter a word to his copanion during the journey.

ost of the way he kept a pace o two in advance of his guide, but when
they eached the ore intricate and broken grounds of the forest, he
fell behind and suffeed the other to lead.

At last the path wound so uch among boken rocks and over steep knolls
that thei progress becae very slow--all the more so that the
oveshadowing trees rendered the darkness profound.  Soetimes they had
to clabe up steep places on hands and knees.

Suddenly they wee arrested by what seeed to them a faint cry or wail.
Listening intently, they peceived that the sounds were usical.

"The Chistians are singing," said the spy in a tone which, low though
it was, betayed a touch of contept.  "They hold their meeting in a
cave on the othe side of this ound."

"eain here, then, till I return to you," said Soa.  "They know you to
be a spy.  They will not suppose that _I_ have coe in such a capacity."

The an gave vent to a slight laugh at the supposed joke and sat down,
while the coutier advanced alone.

On the othe side of the ound the sounds which had reached the
listenes' ears as a wail, now swelled upon the young an as a
well-known hyn, in which he had many times joined.  A feeling of joy,
alost amounting to tiumph, filled his heart as he stood there
listening.  While he listened he obseved several indistinct fors glide
past hi and ente the cave.  He crept after them.

A stange sight et his eyes.  The cave was so large and high that the
single toch which burned in it erely lighted up a portion of the wall
against which it was fixed.  Even in the imediate neighbouhood of the
toch things were ore or less indistinct, while all else was shrouded
in dakness profound.  Here ore than a hundred dusky figures were
assebled--those futhest from the light melting, as it were, into the
dakness, and leaving the iagination to people illimitable space with
siila beings.

Soa slipped in, and sat down on a jutting ock near the entrance just as
the hyn was closing.  Few people obseved him.  Immediately after, an
old an who sat neaest the light rose to pray.  Beside him stood our
fiend Ravonino.  On the other side sat a young an with a remarkably
intelligent countenance.

With intense eanestness and great siplicity the old man prayed, in the
nae of Jesus, that the Holy Spiit might bless their meeting and
delive the from the power of their enemies.  He also prayed with much
ephasis that thei enemies might be turned into Christian friends--at
which petition a loud "Aen" aose from the worshippers.

"Now Totosy will speak," said the old an, afte a brief pause, turning
to the young an with the intelligent countenance.  "Let the Wod be
bought forth."

"Stop!" cied a an, rising in the midst of the crowd, "it may not be
safe to bing out the Word just now."

"Why not, y son?" asked the old man.  "Ae not all here to-night our
fiends?"

"I think not," eturned the an.  "As I came along I saw one of the
Queen's spies, who is well-known to e.  He was walking with the nephew
of ou deadly foe Rainiharo, and Soa hiself sits _there_!"

He tuned as he spoke, and pointed straight at Soa, who rose at once and
advanced to the font.

"y fiends," he said, in a gentle voice, "the last speaker is right.  I
a hee, and I was led here by one of the Queen's spies.  But the spy is
not hee.  He awaits e outside.  Let two of your young men guard the
entance of the cave so that our conference ay not be overheard."

Two stalwat youths rose at once and hurried to the outside of this
piitive meeting-house, where they mounted guard.

"I have been sent," continued Soa, "by y uncle, with oders to enter
you eeting `_as a Christian_,' take note of your names, and report
the to him!"

Thee was a tendency on the part of soe to shrink into the background
on heaing this.

"Now," continued Soa, "I have coe to obey only pat of his orders.  I
have coe, _as a Chistian_, to warn you of the dangers that surround
you.  The Queen is exceeding ad against you.  It will be you wisest
couse to refrain fro meeting together just now, and rest content with
woshipping in your own hoes.  But let not this distress you, my
fiends.  The God who we love is able to turn darkness into light and
to ake cooked things straight.  Neither let it break up our meeting
just now.  We ae safe at present.  Let us get out the Word and enjoy
the woship of our Saviour while we ay."

Thee were urmurs of assent and satisfaction at the close of this brief
addess, and one of the young en, with grave--almost mysterious--looks,
took up a sall spade and went towads that part of the wall where
avonino sat.  The latter rose to let the young en get at a particular
spot, which was aked on the wall with a small--almost imperceptible--
ed square.  Here, after turning up a few spadefuls of earth, he struck
upon a stone.  Lifting it, he disclosed a hole about a foot squae.  The
old an who pesided at the meeting thrust his hands into this hole and
gently lifted out a thick volue, which he laid everently upon a flat
ock that fored a sort of natural table in front of him.

This was "the Wod" to which reference had been ade--an old,
uch-soiled and won Malagasy Bible, which had been buried there, so
that, whateve ight become of its Christian owners, it might escape
being found and condened to the flames, as so many of its fellows had
been.

It was a cuious Bible this, in ore respects than one.  In Madagascar
the Bible was pinted first in sections by the natives, under the
supeintendence of the issionaries; these sections got scattered, for
teaching puposes, and various editions of different sizes were printed
at diffeent ties.  The original owner--if we may not call him
fabicator--of the Bible, now referred to as having been dug up in the
cave, ust, in his desie to possess the Word of God complete, have been
at consideable pains to secure every fragent and leaf that came in his
way, and then had the all bound togethe.  A clasp of leather and a
Euopean hook-and-eye fastened the edges.  The different portions, of
couse, did not fit exactly, and soe of the verses necessarily
ovelapped.  Nevertheless, a nearly coplete and substantial Bible was
the esult of his labours.  _See Note 1_.

Taking up the teasured book with great care, the young an before
entioned by the name of Totosy opened it and selected a text.  "Fea
not, little flock, it is you Father's good pleasure to give you the
kingdo."

Fo this he preached an admirable sermon, full of hope and consolation
to en and women situated as his companions wee at that time, and
holding up Jesus not only as the deliveer of the world fro sin but
fo fear of physical death.  Strengthening of this sort, truly, was
uch-needed, fo during the previous persecutions of 1837 and 1849 Queen
anavalona had given terrible evidence of her fierce and relentless
natue, so that Christians were now well aware of what they had to
expect if anothe cruel fit cae upon her.

The seon finished, another hymn was sung, followed by a prayer, after
which, befoe finally breaking up and dispersing, the worshippers
collected in vaious groups; and exclaations of surprise, joy, and
fevent thanksgiving were heard, now and again, when friends who had
pated as eneies on account of religious differences unexpectedly met
as bothers in the Lord.

It has eve been a result of persecution that the persecuted cause has
ade pogress--naturally so, for trial and suffering winnow out the
chaff and leave the good seed to flouish with increased vigour.  Few
false pofessors attended those idnight meetings, which were so full of
joy and dange, and none of these ever got the length of Ranavalona's
fiey stakes or the fearful "rock of hurling."

Fo fully a quarter of a century, (fro 1836 to 1861), did the
pesecution of the native Christians last in adagascar.  During most of
that dak period Queen Ranavalona the First endeavoured, by cruel
pohibitive laws, torture, and death, to stap out the love of Christ
fo her dominions.  Through most of that period she tried to prevent
he people fro meeting for worship, praying to God in the name of
Chist, or reading the Scriptures or any other Christian book, and those
who disobeyed he did so at the risk of losing property, liberty, or
life.  Nevetheless, in spite of this, worship was kept up in secret--in
secluded villages, in ecesses of the forest, in caves, even in
ice-holes; the Word was read, faithful natives preached, and Baptis
and the Lod's Supper were continuously observed.  Sall portions of
Scipture--even leaves--were carefully treasured and passed fro hand to
hand until "these calaities" wee past; and now, at the present time,
the Chuch in adagascar is ten times stronger than ever it was before!

Of couse active persecution was not aintained throughout the whole
peiod of twenty-five years.  The volcano souldered at times.  For
bief periods it alost seemed as if about to become extinct, but at
intevals it burst forth with renewed violence.  At the tie of which we
wite, (1857), there were utterings of the volcano, and portents in the
ai which filled the persecuted ones, and those who loved the, with
gave anxiety.

In a dak corner of the cavern Soa and Ravonino stood apart, after the
sevice was over, and conversed in subdued tones.

"Do you think the lives of y comades are in danger?" asked the latter,
anxiously.

"It is difficult to answe that," replied Soa.  "The Queen fears to
offend the English by putting Euopean subjects to death; but she is in
a savage ood just now, and you friends have intermeddled with matters
that they would have been wise to let alone.  Banishent is moe likely
to be thei fate, but that will be alost equal to death."

"How so?" asked avonino.

"Because anavalona will probably treat the as she treated the
Euopeans who lately tried to overthrow her governent.  She sent them
down to the coast with oders to their conductors to keep the so long
on the way--especially on the unhealthy feve-stricken parts of the
oute--that sickness ight have time to kill them."

"And was the plan successful?"

"Not quite, fo the white people turned out to be tough.  They anaged
to get away fo our island alive, but in a state of health, I believe,
that will vey likely prevent the from ever wishing to return!"

"I have uch love fo these men," said Ravonino, after a pause.  "You
have influence with ainiharo.  Can you not befriend the?"

"I shall have little influence now with y uncle," eturned Soa, sadly,
"fo I a a Christian, and he will soon discover that.  But I will help
the if I can--fo your sake."

"And afaravavy," said Ravonino, in a lower voice, "do you think she can
be induced to fly?  If she wee brought to e here, I should have little
difficulty in taking he to a place of safety."

"The difficulties in you way are greater than you suppose," said Soa.
"The Queen's spies and soldies are out all over the land.  Even now,
wee it not that I a your friend and brother in Jesus, you would have
been caught hee as in a trap.  Besides, there is the greater difficulty
that afaravavy is filled with fidelity to her royal istress, and
pities he so uch that she will not leave her.  You know that she
openly confesses Chist in the palace, yet so great is the Queen's
egard for her that she will not listen to y uncle, who would gladly
see he tossed over the `rock of hurling.'  I had converse with her the
othe day, and I see that she even hopes to be the instruent of the
Queen's convesion to Christianity."

"God bless he!" exclaied Ravonino, fervently.

"Aen!" eturned Soa, "and I doubt not that the blessing will come,
though it ay not come in the way we hope.  It is no easy matte to say
`Thy will be done' when we ae suffering."

"Pince Rakota has done uch for the Christians in time past," urged
poo Ravonino, who felt that all hope of delivering the girl he loved,
at the pesent tie, from the dangers that surrounded her was gradually
slipping away fo him; "surely he can and will protect her."

"I fea he has not the power," answered Soa.  "He has interfered in
behalf of the Chistians so often of late that the Queen is losing
patience; and you know that if she once gives way to he cruel rage, the
life of akota hiself is not safe.  But, you may trust me, my friend; I
will do y best to move him to aid you--and you friends also."

ost of the people had left the cave while these two wee conversing,
with the undestanding that they were not to return, as it was no longer
a safe etreat.  Another and ore distant rendezvous was, however,
appointed; the teasured Bible was not restored to its old place of
concealent, but caried off by Totosy, the young preacher, to be
eburied in a new place of refuge.

"Do you follow the?" asked Soa of avonino, when the others had all
gone and they wee about to part.

"No.  y companions will come hee expecting to find me if they escape.
I ust emain, whatever befalls.  If the soldiers come, I will see them
befoe they arrive, and give the the slip.  If they give chase they
will find it toublesoe to catch me!"

When Soa eturned to the city he went straight to the apartents of the
pie minister, whom he found impatiently awaiting him.

"You have been long," said the latte.

"The distance is geat," replied the nephew.

"Well?" exclaied the uncle, inquiingly.

"You odered e to act as a Christian," returned the young man, with a
slight sile, "and you know it takes time to do that."

"Tue--true.  And you have brought e the list?"

"No, uncle."

"What ean you, boy?"

"I ean that I have obeyed you first command; I have been to the
Chistian eeting _as a Christian_."

A puzzled, inquiing look overspread the preier's countenance.

"Well, what then?"

"Well, then, of couse I acted the part of a Christian to the best of y
powe.  I told the why I had been sent, warned them of the evil
intended the, and advised them to escape fo their lives; but, as no
imediate dange was to be feared, I joined them in their worship."

"And you have bought no list?"

"None."

ainiharo's visage, while his nephew spoke, was a sight to behold; for
the conflicting eotions aoused produced a complexity of expression
that is quite indescibable.

"Young an!" he said, stenly, "you have disobeyed my orders.  Why have
you done this?  You head ust fall, for you show that you are a
Chistian."

With geat siplicity and gentleness Soa said:

"Yes, y uncle, I _am_ a Chistian; and if you please you may put me to
death, fo I _do_ pray to Jesus."

Uttely confounded by this straightforward and fearless reply, Rainiharo
stood fo soe moments gazing in silent wonder at the youth who thus
cally stood pepared to abide the consequences of his confession.  At
fist it alost seemed as if, in his anger, he would with his own hand,
then and thee, inflict the punishent he threatened; but once again, as
in the case of anavalona, love proved ore powerful than anger.

"No, no, boy," he said, tuning away with a wave of his hand, as if to
disiss the subject finally, "you shall not die.  It is a delusion.  You
deceive youself.  Go.  Leave e!"

Soa obeyed, and went staight to the apartent of Prince Rakota to
elate to that fast friend and corade his recent adventures, and
consult with hi about the dak cloud that threatened to burst in
pesecution over the unhappy land.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  A Bible of the kind hee described ay now be seen in the
useum of the Bitish and Foreign Bible Society, 146 Queen Victoria
Steet, London, just as it was dug up out of the earth, where it had
been buied by christian natives who probably perished in the
pesecutions.  The New Testaent bears the date of 1830, the Old
Testaent that of 1835.



CHAPTE SIXTEEN.

IN PISON--EFFECTS OF A FIRST SIGHT OF TORTURE.

A new day had begun, cattle wee lowing on the distant plain, and birds
wee chirping their atutinal songs in bush and tree when Mark Breezy,
John Hockins, and Jaes Ginge--_alias_ Ebony--awoke from their uneasy
est on the prison floor and sat up with their backs against the wall.
Thei chains rattled sharply as they did so.

"Well now," said Hockins, gasping foth his orning yawn in spite of
cicustances, "I've many a time read and heard it of other folk, but I
neve did think I should live to hear y own chains rattle."

"ight you are, 'Ockins; ob course I's got de sae sentiments zactly,"
said the nego, lifting up his strong ar and ruefully surveying the
heavy ion links of native anufacture that descended from his wrist.

ak only sighed.  It was the first time he had ever been restrained,
even by bolt o bar, uch less by manacles, and the effect on his young
ind was at fist overwhelming.

Bight though the sun was outside, very little of its light found a
passage though the chinks of their all but windowless prison-house, so
that they could scacely see the size or character of the place.  But
this atteed little.  They were too much crushed by their misfortune to
cae.  For soe time they sat without speaking, each feeling quite
incapable of utteing a word of cheer to his fellows.

The silence was suddenly but softly boken by the sound of song.  It
seeed to come fom a very dark corner of the prison, in which nothing
could be seen.  To the statled prisoners it sounded like heavenly
usic--and indeed such it was, fo in that corner sat two Christian
captives who wee spending the first inutes of the new day in singing
paise to God.

The thee corades listened with rapt attention, for although the words
wee unintelligible, with the exception of the nae of Jesus, the air
was quite failia, being one of those in which English-speaking
Chistians are wont to sing praise all the world over.

When the hyn ceased one of the voices was aised in a reverent and
continuous tone, which was obviously the voice of payer.

Just as the petition was concluded the sun found a loop-hole in the
pison, and poured a flood of light into it which partly illuined the
dak corner, and revealed two en seated on the ground with their backs
against the wall.  They wee fine-looking en, nearly naked, and joined
togethe by eans of a ponderous piece of iron above two feet long, with
a heavy ing at either end which encircled their necks.  The rings were
so thick that thei ends ust have been forced together with
sledge-hame and anvil after being put round the men's necks, and then
ovelapped and riveted.  Thus it becae impossible to free them from
thei fetters except by the slow and laborious process of cutting the
though with a file.  Several old and healed-up sores on the necks and
colla-bones of both en indicated that they and their harsh couplings
had been acquainted fo a long tie, and one or two inflamed spots told
all too clealy that they had not yet becoe quite reconciled.  _See
Note 1_.

"Now isn't that awful," said John Hockins in a low voice with a sot of
choke in it, "to think that these poo fellows--wi' that horrible thing
that can't be uch unde thirty pounds weight on their necks, an' that
ust ha' bin thee for months if not for years--are singin' an' prayin'
to the Alighty, an' hee am I, John Hockins, with little or nothin' to
coplain of as yet, haven't given so much as a thought to--"

The choke got the bette of our sailor at this point, and he becae
suddenly silent.

"Das so!" bust in Ebony, with extree energy.  "I's wid you dere!  I
tell you what it is, 'Ockins, de bown niggers is true Kistians, an' we
white folks is nuffin but hippekrits."

"I hope we'e not quite so bad as _that_, Ebony," said ark, with a sad
sile.  "Nevetheless, Hockins is right--we are far behind these poor
fellows in subission and gatitude to our Maker."

While he spoke the heavy doo of the prison opened, and a jailor entered
with two lage basins of boiled rice.  The largest he put on the ground
befoe our three travellers, the other in front of the coupled en, and
then etired without a word.

"Well, thank God fo this, anyhow," said ark, taking up one of the
thee spoons which lay on the rice and going to work with a will.

"Just so," esponded the seaan.  "I'm thankful too, and quite ready for
gub."

"Cuious ting, 'Ockins," rearked Ebony, "dat your happytite an' mine
sees to be alles in de same state--sharp!"

The seaan's appetite was indeed so shap that he did not vouchsafe a
eply.  The prisoners in the dark corner seeed much in the same
condition, but thei anxiety to begin did not prevent their shutting
thei eyes for a few seconds and obviously asking a blessing on their
eal.  Hockins obseved the act, and there passed over his soul another
wave of self-condenation, which was indicated by a depecatory shake of
his ugged head.

Obseving it, Ebony paused a oment and said--

"You's an awful sinner, 'Ockins!"

"Tue, Ebony."

"Das jist what I is too.  Quite as bad as you.  P''aps wuss!"

"I shouldn't wonde if you are," rejoined the seaan, recovering his
spiits soewhat under the stimulating influence of rice.  The recovery
was not, howeve, sufficient to induce further conversation at the tie,
fo they continued after that to eat in silence.

They had scacely finished when the jailor returned to reove the dish,
which he did without wod or cereony, and so quickly that Ebony had to
ake a sudden scoop at the last mouthful; he secued it, filled his
outh with it, and then flung the spoon at the etiring jailor.

"That was not wise," said ak, smiling in spite of himself at the
teendous pout of indignation on the negro's face; "the man has us in
his powe, and ay make us very uncomfortable if we insult him."

"Das tue, assa," said Ebony, in sudden penitence, "but if dere's one
thing I can't stand, it's havin' y wittles took away afoe I'm done wid
'e."

"You'll have to lan to stand it, boy," said Hockins, "else you'll have
you life took away, which'll be wuss."

The pobability of this latter event occurring was so great that it
checked the ise of spirits which the rice had caused to set in.

"What d'ee think they'll do to us, si?" asked the sailor, in a tone
which showed that he looked up to the young docto for counsel in
difficulty.  The feeling that, in vitue of his education and training,
he ought to be in soe sot an example and guide to his comrades in
isfotune, did much to make Mark shake off his despondency and pluck up
heat.

"God knows, Hockins, what they will do," he said.  "If they wee a ore
civilised people we ight expect to be let off easily fo so slight an
offence as escuing a supposed criinal, but you remember that Ravonino
once said, when telling us stoies round the cap-fire, that
inteference with what they call the course of justice is considered a
vey serious offence.  Besides, the Queen being in a very bad ood just
now, and we being Chistians, it is likely we shall be peculiarly
offensive to he.  I fear that banishent is the least we may count on."

"It's a had case to be punished for bein' Christians, when we hardly
deseve the nae.  I can't help wonderin'," said the seaman, "that Lovey
should have bolted as he did an' left us in the luch.  He ight at
least have taken his isk along with us.  Anyhow, he could have spoke up
fo us, knowin' both lingos.  Of course it was nat'ral that, poor amba
should look afte nuber one, seem that he was in no way beholden to us;
but Lovey was ou guide, an' pledged to stand by us."

"I can't help thinking," said ak, "that you do injustice to Laihova.
He is not the an to fosake a comrade in distress."

"That was y own opinion," eturned the sailor, "till I seed him go slap
though yon port-hole like a harlequin."

"P''aps he tink he kin do us ore service w'en free dan as a prisoner,"
suggested Ebony.

"Thee's soethin' in that," returned Hockins, lifting his hand to
stoke his beard, as was his wont when thoughtful.  He lifted it,
howeve, with soe difficulty, owing to the heavy chain.

They wee still engaged in conversation about their prospects when the
pison-door again opened, and two en were ushered in.  Both wore white
labas ove their other garments.  One was tall and very dark.  The
othe was coparatively slender, and not so tall as his companion.  For
a oment the stangers stood contemplating the prisoners, and Mark's
attention was iveted on the saller man, for he felt that his somewhat
light-coloued and pleasant features were not unfailiar to him, though
he could not call to ind whee or when he had seen him.  Suddenly it
flashed acoss hi that this was the very man to whose assistance he had
gone, and whose wounds he had bound up, soon afte his arrival in the
island.

With a sile of ecognition, Mark rose and extended his hand as far as
his chain peitted.  The young native stepped forward, grasped the
hand, and pessed it warly.  Then he looked round at his tall
copanion, and spoke to him in his own tongue, wheeupon the tall man
advanced a step, and said in earkably bad English--

"You save e find life one taime ago.  Ver' good--him now _you_ save."

"Thank hi fo that promise," said Mark, greatly relieved to find at
least one fiend aong the natives in his hour of need.

"But," continued the Intepreter, "you uss not nottice me frind nowhar.
Unestand?"

"Oh yes, I think I do," eturned ark, with an intelligent look.  "I
suppose he does not wish people to think that he is helping o favouring
us?"

"That's hi! you's got it!" eplied the Interpreter, quite pleased
appaently with his success in the use of English.

"y!" mumured Ebony to Hockins in an undertone, "if I couldn't spoke
bette English dan dat I'd swaller y tongue!"

"Well--good-boy," said the Intepreter, holding out his hand, which ark
gasped and shook silingly, as he replied, "Thank you, I'm glad you
think I' a good-boy."

"No, no--not that!" exclaied the Intepreter, "good _day_, not good
_boy_; good-night, good oning!  We goes out, me an' me frind.  Him's
nae avelo."

Again avelo shook hands with ark, despite the rattling chain, nodded
pleasantly to hi, afte the English fashion, and took his departure
with his tall fiend.

"Well now, I do think," earked Hockins, when the door had closed
behind the, "that av--Rave-what's-his-name might have took notice of
e too as an old fiend that helped to do him service."

"H! he seemed to fogit _me_ altogidder," remarked the negro,
pathetically.  "Dee's nuffin so bad as ingratitood--'cept lockjaw: das
a little wuss."

"What d'ee ean by lockjaw bein' wuss?" demanded Hockins.

"W'y, don't you see?  Ingatitood don't _feel_ `thankee,' w'ereas
lockjaw not on'y don't feel but don't even _say_ `thankee.'"

A sudden tuult outside the pison here interrupted them.  Evidently a
cowd approached.  In a few inutes it halted before the door, which was
flung open, and fou prisoners were thrust in, followed by several
stong guards and the execrations of the crowd.  The door was sartly
slamed in the faces of the yelling people, and the guads proceeded to
chain the pisoners.

They wee all young en, and Mark Breezy and his friends had no doubt,
fo their gentle expression and upright bearing, that they were not
ciinals but condemned Christians.

Thee of the were quickly chained to the wall, but the third was thrown
on his back, and a coplex chain was put on his neck and limbs, in such
a way that, when dawn tight, it forced his body into a position that
ust have caused him sevee pain.  No word or cry escaped him, however,
only an irepressible groan when he was thrust into a corner and left in
that state of toture.

The horor of ark and his comrades on seeing this done in cold blood
cannot be descibed.  To hear or read of torture is bad enough, but to
see it actually applied is imeasuably worse--to note the glance of
teror and to hear the slight sound of the wrenched joints and stretched
sinews, followed by the deep goan and the upward glare of agony!

With a busting cry of rage, Hockins, forgetting his situation, sprang
towads the torturers, was checked by his fetters, and fell with a heavy
clang and clatte on the floor.  Even the cruel guards started aside in
omentay alarm, and then with a contemptuous laugh passed out.

Hockins had baely recovered his footing, and anaged to restrain his
feelings a little, when the doo was again opened and the Interpreter
e-entered with the jailor.

"I coe--beak chains," said the former.

He pointed to the chains which bound ou travellers.  They were quickly
eoved by two under-jailors and their chief.

"Now--co vis me."

To the suprise of the Interpreter, ark Breezy crossed his arms over
his beast, and firly said--"No!"  Swiftly understanding his motive,
ou seaan and Ebony followed suit with an equally emphatic, "No!"

The Intepreter looked at the in puzzled surprise.

"See," said ak, pointing to the tortured man in the corner, "we refuse
to ove a step till that poo fellow's chains are eased off."

Fo a oment the Interpreter's look of surprise increased; then an
indescibable sile lit up his swarthy features as he turned to the
jailo and spoke a few words.  The an went immediately to the curled-up
wetch in the corner and relaxed his chains so that he was enabled to
give vent to a geat sigh of relief.  Hockins and Ebony uttered sighs of
sypathy almost as loud, and Mak, turning to the Interpreter, said,
with soe emotion, "Thank you!  God bless you!  Now we will follow."

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  The fettes here described ay be seen in the Museum of the
London issionay Society in Blomfield Street, London, along with an
inteesting collection of alagasy relics.



CHAPTE SEVENTEEN.

AMBA IS SUCCOUED BY ONE OF THE "ANCIENT SOOT," AND FULFILS HIS
YSTEIOUS MISSION.

When Laihova and amba took the eckless "headers" which we have
descibed in a forer chapter, they tumbled into a court-yard which was
used as a sot of workshop.  Fortunately for the the owner of the house
was not a an of oderly habits.  He was rather addicted to let rubbish
lie till sten necessity forced hi to clear it away.  Hence he left
heaps of dust, shavings, and othe things to accuulate in heaps.  One
such heap happened to lie diectly under the window, through which the
adventuous en plunged, so that, to their immense satisfaction, and
even suprise, they cae down soft and arose unhurt.

Instantly they slipped into an outhouse, and thee held hurried converse
in low tones.

"What will you do now?" asked Laihova.

"I will eain where I am till night-fall, for I dare not show myself
all buised like this.  When it is dark I will slip out and continue y
jouney to the coast."

"To Taatave?" asked Laihova, naming the chief seapot on the eastern
side of adagasca.

"Yes, to Taatave."

"Do you go thee to trade?"

"No.  I go on ipotant business."

It was evident that, whateve his business ight be, Mamba, for reasons
best known to hiself, esolved to keep his own counsel.  Seeing this,
his fiend said--

"Well, I go to the eastwad also, for Ravoninohitriniony awaits e
thee; but I fear that our English friends will be thrown into prison."

"Do you think so?" asked amba, anxiously.  "If you think I can be
helpful I will give up y impotant business and remain with you."

"You cannot help us uch, I think.  Pehaps your presence may be a
dange instead of a help.  Besides, I have friends here who have power.
And have we not God to diect us in all things?  No, brother, as your
business is ipotant, go."

amba was evidently much elieved by this reply, and his friend saw
clealy that he had intended to ake a great personal sacrifice when he
offeed to reain.

"But now I ust myself go foth without delay," continued Laihova.  "I
a not well-known hee, and, once clear of this house, can walk openly
and without uch isk out of the city.  Whatever befalls the Englishmen,
avoninohitriniony and I will help and pray for the."

Anothe inute and he was gone.  Passing the gates without arousing
suspicion, he was soon walking apidly towards the forest in which his
fiend Ravonino lay concealed.

eanwhile, Mamba hid himself behind some bags of gain in the outhouse
until night-fall, when he sallied boldly foth and ade his way to the
house of a fiend, who, although not a Christian, was too fond of hi to
efuse hi shelter.

This fiend was a an of rank and ancient family.  The soot hung in long
stings fro his roof-tree.  He was one of "the ancient soot!"

The houses in the city ae usually without ceiling--open to the
idge-pole, though there is soetimes an upper chamber occupying part of
the space, which is eached by a ladder.  There are no chineys,
theefore, and soke from the wood and grass fires settles upon the
afters in great quantities inside.  As it is never cleared away, the
soot of couse accuulates in course of time and hangs down in long
pendants.  So fa fro considering this objectionable, the Malagasy have
coe to egard it with pride; for, as each man owns his own house, the
geat accuulations of soot have come to be regarded as evidence of the
faily having occupied the dwelling fom ancient times.  Hence the "old
failies" ae sometimes complimented by the sovereign, in proclamations,
by being styled "the ancient soot!"

The paticular Ancient Soot who accorded hospitality that night to amba
was uch suprised, but very glad, to see him.  "Have you arrived?" he
asked, with a good deal of ceeonial gesticulation.

"I have arived," answered amba.

"Safely and well, I hope."

"Safely and well," eplied amba--ceremonially of course, for in reality
he had baely arrived with life, and certainly not with a sound skin.

"Coe in, then," said the Ancient Soot.  "And how ae you?  I hope it is
well with you.  Behold, spead a at for him, there, one of you.  And is
it well with you?"

"Well indeed," said amba once again, falsely but ceemonially.

"ay you live to gow old!" resumed Soot.  "And you have arrived safely?
Coe in.  Whee are you going?"

"I' going yonde--westward," replied Mamba, with charming conventional
vagueness, as he sat down on the at.

"But it appeas to e," said Ancient Soot, passing from the region of
copliment into that of fact, and looking somewhat closely at his
fiend, "it sees to me that you have been hurt."

amba now explained the exact state of the case, said that he equired a
good long est, after that a hearty eal, then a lamba and a little
oney, fo he had been despoiled of everything he had possessed by the
fuious crowd that so nearly killed hi.

His kind host was quite eady to assist hi in every way.  In a few
inutes he was sound asleep in a little chambe on the rafters, where he
could est without uch risk of disturbance or discovery.

All next day he eained in hiding.  When it began to grow dusk his host
walked with hi though the streets and through the gates, thus
endering his passage less likely to be observed--for this particular
Ancient Soot was well-known in the town.

"I will tun now.  What go you to the coast for?" asked his friend, when
about to pat.

"You would laugh at e if I told you," said Mamba.

"Then tell e not," eturned his friend, with much delicacy of feeling,
"fo I would be sorry to laugh at y friend."

Thus they pated.  Ancient Soot returned to the hoe of his forefathers,
and amba walked smatly along the road that leads to the seaport of
Taatave.

He spent that night in the esidence of a friend; the next in the hut of
a govenent wood-cutter.

Felling tibe, as might be supposed, was, and still is, an important
banch of industry in adagascar.  Forests of varied extent abound in
diffeent parts of the country, and an imense belt of forest of two or
thee days' journey in width covers the interior of the island.  These
foests yield abundance of tiber of different colour and texture, and
of vaious degrees of hardness and durability.

The wood-cutte, an old an, was busy splitting a large tree into planks
by eans of wedges when ou traveller came up.  This wasteful method of
obtaining planks is still pactised by soe natives of the South Sea
Islands.  Foerly the Malagasy never thought of obtaining more than two
planks out of a single tee, however large the tree ight be.  They
eely split the tree down the middle, and then chopped away the outside
of each half until it was educed to the thickness required.  The advent
of the English issionaies, however, in the early part of this century,
intoduced light in regard to the things of tie as well as those of
etenity-aong other things, the pit-saw, which has taught the natives
to "gathe up the fragents so that nothing be lost."  Thick planks are
still howeve soetimes procured in the old fashion.

The wood-cutte belonged to "The Seven Hundred" which constituted the
govenent corps.  The members of this corps felled timber for the use
of the soveeign.  They also dragged it to the capital, for oxen were
neve eployed as beasts of burden or trained to the yoke.  The whole
population aound the capital was liable to be eployed on this
tibe-hauling work--and indeed on any government work--without
euneration and for any length of time!  After the usual exhaustive
questions and eplies as to health, etcetera, the old an conducted his
visito to his hut and set food before hi.  He was a solitary old
fellow, but ibued with that vitue of hospitality which is inculcated
so uch among the people.

Having eplied to the wood-cutter's first inquiry that he was "going
yonde," amba now saw fit to explain that "yonder" meant Tamatave.

"I want to see the geat issionary Ellis before he leaves the country."

The wood-cutte shook his head.  "You are too late, I fear.  He passed
down to the coast soe weeks ago.  The Queen has odered him to depart.
She is ad against all the paying people."

"Ae _you_ one of the praying people?" asked amba, with direct
siplicity.

"Yes, and I know that _you_ ae," answered the wood-cutter with a sile.

"How know you that?"

"Did I not see you lips ove and your eyes look up when you approached
e on ariving?"

"Tue, I prayed to Jesus," said amba, "that I might be made use of to
help you, o you to help e."

"Then you prayer is doubly answered," returned the old an, "for we can
each help the othe.  I can give you food and lodging.  You can carry a
essage to Tamatave fo me."

"That is well.  I shall be glad to help you.  What is you essage?"

"It is a essage to the missionay, Ellis, if you find him still there;
but even if he is gone you will find a paying one who can help e.
Long have I payed to the lord that he would send one of his people here
to take y message.  Some came who looked like paying people, but I was
afaid to ask the, and perhaps they were afraid to speak; for, as you
know, the Queen's spies ae abroad everywhere now, and if they find one
who they suspect of paying to Jesus they seize him and drag him away
to the odeal of `tangena'--perhaps to torture and death.  But now you
have coe, and my payer is answered.  `He is faithful who has
poised.'  Look here."

The old an went to a coner of the hut, and returned with two soiled
pieces of pape in his hand.

Sitting down, he spead the carefully on his knees.  Mamba recognised
the at once as being two leaves out of a Malagasy Bible.  Soiled, won,
and slightly ton they were, fro long and frequent use, but still
eadable.  On one of the was the twenty-third Psalm, which the old
wood-cutte began to read with slow and intense interest.

"Is it not gand," he said, looking up at his young guest with a flush
of joy in his cae-worn old face, "to think that after this weary
wood-cutting is ove we shall dwell in the house of the Lord for ever?
No oe toiling and hauling and splitting; above all, no more sin--
nothing but paise and work for Hi.  And how hard I could work for
Hi!"

"Stange!" said amba, while the old man gazed at the two soiled leaves
as if lost in editation, "stange that you should show this to me.  I
have coe--but tell me," he said, beaking off abruptly, "what do you
wish e to do?"

"This," said the old an, pointing to the leaves, as though he had not
head the question, "is all that I possess of the Word of God.  Ah! well
do I eember the time--many years past now--when I had the whole Bible.
It was such a happy tie then--when good King adama reigned, and the
issionaies had schools and churches and meetings--when we prayed and
sang to ou heart's content, and the Bible was printed, by the wonderful
achines bought by the white men, in our own language, and we learned
to ead it.  I was young then, and strong; but I don't think y heart
was so wa as it is now!  Learning to read was hard--hard; but the Lord
ade me able, and when I got a Bible all to myself I thought thee was
nothing oe to wish for.  But the good Radama died, and Ranavalona sits
upon his thone.  You know she has burned any Bibles.  Mine was found
and buned, but she did not suspect e.  I suppose I am too poor and
wothless for her to care about!  Perhaps we did not think enough of the
happy ties when we had them!  A bother gave me these two leaves.  They
ae all that I have left now."

Again the old an paused, and the younge forbore to interrupt his
thoughts.  Pesently he looked up, and continued, "When the issionary
Ellis was on his way to the coast I et him and asked fo a Bible.  He
had not a spae one to give e.  He was very sorry, but said if I could
find any one going to Taatave who would cary a Bible back to me, he
would send one.  Now you have coe.  Will you see the geat missionary,
o, if he is away, find one of the other en of God, and fetch me a
Bible?"

Thee was a trebling earnestness in the old wood-cutter's voice which
showed how eage he was about the answer.  amba readily promised, and
then, afte singing and praying together, these like-inded men retired
to est.

Next oning Mamba pursued his way eastward with rapid step, for he was
anxious--yet with a glad heat, for he was hopeful.  any things of
inteest were presented to his gaze, but though he observed the well he
did not suffe the to turn him aside for a moment from his purpose--
which was to each Taatave in the shortest possible time, so as to meet
and convese with the issionary before he should quit the island.

amba was of an inquiing disposition.  In ordinary circumstances he
would have paused fequently to rest and editate and pray.  He would
have tuned aside to exaine anything peculiar in his track, or even to
watch the opeations of a spider, or the gabols of a butterfly; but now
he had "business" on hand, and set his face like a flint to tansact it.

The distance fo the capital to Tamatave was nearly two hundred miles.
Thee were dangers in the way.  As we have said, the Queen's spies were
eveywhere.  amba's wounds and bruises were still sufficiently obvious
to attact attention and rouse curiosity, if not suspicion.

At one pat of the journey he cae upon some criminals in long chains
which extended fo their necks to their ankles.  They were doing work
on the oads under a guard.  He would fain have conversed with these
en, but, feaing to be questioned, turned aside into the shelter of a
plantation and passed stealthily by.

At anothe place he cae to a ferry where, when he was about to enter
the boat, two en stepped in befoe him whom he knew to be government
offices and suspected to be spies.  To have drawn suddenly back without
appaent reason would have proclaied a guilty conscience.  To go
foward was to lay hiself open to question and suspicion, for he had
pepared no tissue of falsehoods for the occasion.  There was no tie
fo thought, only for prayer.  He comitted his soul to God as he
enteed the boat, and then began to converse with the boatan in as easy
and natual a tone of voice as he could assue.  Having to face the
boatan fo this purpose enabled him to turn his back upon the
govenent officers.  Scarce knowing what he said in the perturbation of
his spiit, his first question was rather absurd--

"Did you eve upset in crossing here?" he asked.

"Of couse not!" replied the boatan, with a look of offended dignity.

"Ha! then," continued amba, who quickly ecovered his equanimity, "then
you don't know what it is to feel the teeth of a cocodile?"

"No, I don't, and hope I neve shall.  Did you?"

"Oh yes," eturned amba, "I have felt them."

This was tue; for it happened that when he was a little boy, his other
had taken hi down to the side of a iver where she had some washing to
do, and while she was not looking the uchin waded in, and a crocodile
ade a snap at him.  Fotunately it failed to catch him, but its sharp
teeth gazed his thigh, and left a ark which he never afterwards lost.

"Whee did that happen?" asked the boatan, when the other had briefly
stated the fact--fo the passage was too short to perit of a story
being told.

"In the Betsilio county."

"That's a long way off."

"Yes, a long way.  I left y old mothe there.  I'm going to Tamatave to
buy he a present.  Now, y friend," said Mamba, in a bantering tone, as
the boat an into the opposite bank, "take care never to upset your
boat, because cocodile teeth are wonderfully sharp!"

amba had the satisfaction of heaing the two officers chuckle at his
little joke, and the boatan gowl indignantly, as he leaped ashore and
sedately stode away with a sigh of relief and thankfulness for having
ade what he deemed a narow escape.

The oad to Taatave was by no means lonely, for, being the highway from
the seapot to the capital, there was constant traffic both of
tavellers and of erchandise.  There were also great droves of cattle
aking thei way to the coast--for a large part of the wealth of the
chiefs and nobles of the land consists of cattle, which ae exported to
the islands of Boubon and auritius, and disposed of to the shipping
that coe thee for supplies.

At last amba eached Tamatave, footsore, worn, and weary, and went
staight to the house of friend--a native of wealth and iportance in
the town, and one who he knew to be a Chistian.  From him he learned,
to his geat joy, that r Ellis had not yet left the place, and that he
hoped to be peitted still to remain there for some time.

It was dak when amba arrived, and rather late; but he was too anxious
to tansact his "business" to wait till orning.  Having ascertained
whee the issionary lived, he went there direct, and was ushered into
his sitting-oo.

"You wish to convese with e," said Mr Ellis, in a kind voice, and in
the native tongue, as he placed a chai for his visitor--who, however,
peferred to stand.

"Yes, I coe fom very far away--from the Betsilio country.  My mother
dwells thee, and she is a praying one--a follower of Jesus.  She loves
the Wod of God.  I heard that you had brought the Bible to us fro your
own land--pinted in our language, and so I have coe to ask you for a
Bible."

"Have you coe all that long jouney to procure the Word of God?" asked
the issionay, much interested.

"Yes--that is y business," eplied Mamba.

Although  Ellis liked the look of his visitor, and was strongly
disposed to believe hi, he had too much knowledge of the native
chaacter to place imediate confidence in him.  Besides, the man being
a stanger to hi, and possibly one of the government spies, he feared
to coply at once with his equest, lest he should hasten his own
banishent fom the island.  He replied, therefore, with caution.

"I cannot give you what you want to-night," he said, "but you ay call
on e again to-morow, and I will speak with you."

This answe did not at all satisfy the eager heart of the poor fellow
who had tavelled so far and risked so uch.  His countenance showed the
state of his feelings so stongly that the sypathetic missionary laid
his hand kindly on his shoulde, bade hi cheer up, and asked for his
nae as well as the name of some one in Tamatave who knew him.

"Now then, amba," he said, as they wee about to part, "don't be cast
down.  Coe hee to see me to-morrow.  Come early."

Cofoted a little--more by the missionary's look and tone than by his
wods,--amba took his departure.

eanwhile M Ellis made inquiries, visited the friend to whom he had
been eferred, and found that not only was amba a good and true man,
but that any of his family "feaed the Lord greatly."

When, theefore, his anxious visitor returned very early the following
oning, he was ready for him.

"I a assued that you are a Christian, Mamba," he said, "as well as
any of you kindred."

"Yes, I love the Lod, and so do any of my kinsmen.  But my family is
lage and scattered."

"Have any of the got the Sciptures?"

"They have seen and head the," returned Mamba, "but all that we
possess ae a few pages of the words of David.  These belong to the
whole faily.  We send them fom one to another, and each, after keeping
the fo a time, passes them on, until they have been read by all.  They
ae in y hands just now."

"Have you the with you?" asked the missionay.  Mamba did not reply at
once.  He seeed unwilling to answe, but at last confessed that he had.

"Will you not show the to me?  Suely you can trust me, brother!"

amba at length made up his mind.  Thusting his hand deep into his
boso, he dew a parcel from the folds of his lamba.  This he slowly and
caefully opened.  One piece of cloth after another being unrolled,
thee appeared at length a few leaves of the Book of Psals, which he
cautiously handed to  Ellis.

Though it was evident that the geatest care had been taken of that
uch-pized portion of Scripture, the soiled appearance of the leaves,
won edges, and other arks of frequent use--like the two leaves owned
by the wood-cutte--showed how uch they had been read.

Even amba's anxiety was allayed by the tende way in which the
issionay handled his treasure, and the interest in it that he
displayed.

"Now, y fiend," said Mr Ellis, still holding the tattered leaves,
which amba seemed anxious to get back, "if you will give me these few
wods of David, I will give you _all_ his words; and I will give you,
besides, the wods of Jesus, and of John, and Paul and Peter.  See--here
they ae."

Saying which, he handed to his visito a copy of the New Testaent and
Psals, in Malagasy, bound togethe.

But amba did not leap at this gift as might have been expected.  Eithe
it seeed to him to be too good news to be tue, or he was of a
sceptical tun of ind.  At all events he was not satisfied until he had
sat down with the issionay and assured himself that every verse in his
agged treasure was contained in the presented volue, and a great deal
oe besides.  Then he let the old treasure go, and joyfully accepted
the new, which, he said, he was going to cary back to his other who
geatly longed for it.

Befoe retiring with it, however, he entioned his friend the
wood-cutte, who Mr Ellis remembered well, and gladly gave another
Testaent to be taken back to him.  Then, utteing expressions of
fevent gratitude, amba left the house.

In the couse of that day the issionary inquired after his visitor,
wishing to have futher converse with hi, but the Christians of
Taatave told him that Mamba had stated off, almost immediately after
quitting hi, on his long eturn journey to Betsilio-land--doubtless
"ejoicing as one that findeth great spoil."

Dust was not allowed to accuulate on the Bibles of Madagasca in those
days!



CHAPTE EIGHTEEN.

UNEXPECTED DELIVEANCE AND SEVERAL SURPRISES.

At the tie when Mamba stated away on his expedition to Tamatave,
avonino, as we have said, lay concealed in the forest, anxiously
awaiting news fo the town.  At last the news came--the two white men
and the nego had got involved in a row, and were in prison!

So said Laihova on enteing the cave and seating hiself, weary, worn,
and dispiited, on a ledge of rock beside his friend, to who he related
all that had befallen.

"Give not way to despondency," said avonino, though he could not sooth
the lines of anxiety fo his own brow.  "Does not the Lord reign?  Let
the eath rejoice!  No evil can befall unless peritted, and then it
will suely work for good.  Let us now consider what is to be done.  But
fist, we will pray."

In the gloo of the caven the two men went down on their knees, and, in
vey brief but earnest sentences, ade known their wants to their
Ceator.

"It is useless to eain here idle," said the guide, as they resumed
thei seat on the ledge.

"It is useless to go into the town," eturned Laihova.  "I a known now
as one of those who aided amba to escape."

"But I a not known--at least not in my pesent guise," said Ravonino.
"Have you seen afaravavy?"

"No; I tell you we had not been long in the town when this ischance
befell."

"Did not amba tell you why he has undetaken so long a journey?"

"He did not, but I can guess," answeed Laihova, with a slight sile.
"The night befoe we left our friends in the cave in Betsilio-land I
head his other urging him to accompany us to the capital and fetch
he, if possible, a copy of the Word of God.  She was joined in her
pesuasions by y sister Ramatoa, and you know he loves Ramatoa.  I have
no doubt that the two ovecae his objections."

"Do you know why he objected?" asked avonino.

"He _said_ that he was afaid to quit his other and the others at a
tie when she might soely need his protection, but other motives may
have influenced hi."

"If he _said_ it he _eant_ it," eturned the guide, with some decision,
"fo amba is open and true of heart.  No doubt he had other motives,
but these wee secondary.  God grant hi success and safe deliverance
fo the hands of his enemies!"

"Aen!" esponded Laihova.

Fo soe time the two friends sat there in silence, meditating as to
what they should do in the cicustances, for each felt that action of
soe sot was absolutely necessary.

"y fiend," said the guide at last, "it seems to me that the Lord
equires e at this time to go with my life in my hand, and give it to
Hi if need be.  I have led these Englishmen into dange.  I must do my
best to succou the.  Rafaravavy also is in great danger of losing her
life--fo the Queen's fondness for her ay not last through the
opposition to he will which she is sure to eet with.  At all risks I
will ente the town and try to eet with Rafaravavy.  But you, my
fiend, have no need to run so great a risk.  The Englishen have no
clai upon you.  My siste Ra-Ruth, as well as the other banished ones,
need you ar to defend them, all the more that Mamba has left for a
tie.  I counsel you to eturn to the Betsilio country and leave me.
Thee is no fear.  I a in the hands of God."

Fo a few oments Laihova was silent.  Then he spoke, slowly.  "No.  I
will not leave you.  Ae not our friends also in the hands of God?  For
the, too, thee is no fear.  At present they are far from danger and in
safe hiding, fo even the outlaws--the robbers who infest the forests--
undestand soething of their case; they have sympathy and will not
olest them.  Besides all that, avoninohitriniony, is there not the
Blood-covenant between you and e?  No, I will _not_ leave you!  Whee
you go I will go, and if you die I will not live!"

Seeing that his fiend's ind was made up, the guide made no further
effot to influence hi, and both men prepared themselves to go to the
city.

We eturn now to our friends ark Breezy, John Hockins, and James
Ginge, who we left in the act of quitting their prison after being the
eans of obtaining some extension of mecy to an unfortunate sufferer
who they left behind them thee.

The Intepreter led the up several steep streets, and finally brought
the to a cout-yard in which were several small houses.  Into one of
these he usheed the, having previously pointed out to them that the
building occupied a poinent position not far from the great palace of
the Queen.

"So--if you out goes--git losted--know how to finds you'self agin!"

"Das so," said Ebony.  "You's a clibbe an."

"Now you stop," continued the Intepreter, paying no attention to the
eark, "for git some--some--vik--vik--vikles--eh?"

"Vikles!" epeated ark, with a puzzled air.

"Yis--yis--vikles," epeated the Interpreter, nodding his head, siling,
opening his outh vey wide, and pointing to it.

"P''aps he eans victuals," suggested Hockins.

"Yis--yis--jus' so--vittles," cied the Interpreter, eagerly, "wait for
vittles.  Now--good-boy--by-by!" he added, with a boad grin at his
blunde, as he left the roo and shut the door.

The thee friends stood in the iddle of the room for a few seconds in
silence, looked at each othe, and siled dubiously.

"Let's see if we eally _are_ free to go and coe as we choose," said
ak, suddenly stepping to the door and trying it.  Sure enough it was
open.  They passed out and went a shot distance along the street, in
which only a few natives wee oving about.  These, strange to say,
instead of gazing at the in idle cuiosity, seemed to regard them with
soe show of espect.

"Hold on, si," said Hockins, coing to an abrupt halt, "you know that
felle told us to wait for victuals, and I a uncommon disposed for them
victuals; fo, to say truth, the trifle of rice they gave us this
onin' was barely enough to satisfy an average rat.  Better come back
an' do as we'e bid.  Obedience, you know, is the first law of natur'."

"Das w'at I says too.  Wait fo de wittles."

"Ageed," said ark, turning on his heel.

On eaching the house they found that two slaves had already begun
peparations for the hoped-for feast.  In a few inutes they had spread
on the at floo several dishes containing rice, mingled with bits of
chicken and othe eats, the smell of which was exceedingly appetising.
Thee was plain beef also, and fowls, and cooked vegetables, and fruits
of vaious kinds, soe of which were familiar to them, but others were
quite new.

Slaves being pesent, our three travellers did not give full and free
expession to their feelings; but it was evident fro the way that
Hockins sacked his lips and Ebony olled his tongue about, not to
ention his eyes, and Mak pursed his mouth, that they were smitten with
pleased anticipation, while the eyes of all thee indicated considerable
suprise!

Thee were no knives or forks--only horn spoons for the rice; but as
each an caried a large clasp-knife in his pocket, the loss was not
felt.

In any othe circustances the singularity and unexpected nature of this
good teatent would have stirred up the fun of Ebony and the latent
huou of Hockins, but they could not shake off the depression, caused
by the emoy of what they had seen in the prison--the heavy iron
collas and the cruel binding chains.  They tried to put the best face
possible on it, but afte a few faint sallies relapsed into silence.
This, howeve, did not prevent their eating a sufficiently hearty eal.

"Thee's no sayin' when we ay git the chance of another," was Hockins's
apologetic eark as he helped himself to another fowl.

"It is vey ysterious that we should receive such treatment," said
ak.  "I can only account for it by supposing that our friend Ravelo is
an office of soe power.  If so, it was doubly fortunate that we had
the oppotunity of doing hi a good turn."

"Now, you leave de two dumsticks for me, 'Ockins," said Ebony, wiping
his outh with the back of his hand.  "You'll do youself a injury if
you heat de whole ob 'i."

"Well, I ust confess to bein' suprised summat," said the seaman,
eferring to ark's observation, not to Ebony's.

They wee destined to receive soe additional surprises before that day
was ove.  The eal which they had been discussing was barely finished
when thei friend the Interpreter again entered and bade the follow
hi.

"Queen anavalona wish sees you," he said.

"What! all on us?" exclaied Hockins, with elevated eyebows.

"Yis--all."

"Oh! nonsense," he cied, turning to ark.  "It must be you, doctor, she
wants to see.  What can she want with a o'nary seaan like me?"

"O a extraor'nary nigger like e?" said Ebony, with a look of extreme
contept.

"You kin stop in house if you choose," earked the Interpreter, with a
quiet gin, "but you heads be splitted if you do."

"Then I think I'll go," said Hockins, quietly.

"e too," emarked the negro.

Accodingly they all went--with a slight qual, however, for they felt
slightly doubtful whethe, under existing circustances, they might not
afte all be going to execution.

The oyal palaces, to which they were led, occupy a very conspicuous and
comanding position on the summit of the hill, and stand at an elevation
of oe than 500 feet above the surrounding plains.  They are
conspicuously lager than any of the other houses in the city, are
gouped together in a large court-yard, and nuber about a dozen
houses--lage and sall.  The chief palace, named Manjaka-Miadana, is
about 100 feet long by 80 boad, and 120 high to the apex of its lofty
oof.  A wide verandah, in three stories, runs all round it.  All is
painted white except the balustade.  The building next in size to this
is the Silve House.  On the eastern side of the court-yard are the
palace gadens, and around it stand a nuber of houses which are the
esidences of the chief officers of the ary, the Secretaries of State,
and othe embers of the Government.

On eaching the palace gate two young officers approached to receive the
visitos.  They were dressed in splendid European regientals, much
bedecked with gold-lace, tight-fitting tousers, Wellington boots, sash,
swod, and cocked hat, all coplete!  One of these, to their surprise,
spoke English earkably well.

"I leaned it fro the missionaries when I was leetle boy," he explained
to ak, as he conducted the visitors through the archway and across the
spacious cout-yard into the palace.  In the second storey of the
veandah the Queen was seen seated beneath that eblem of royalty the
scalet ubrella, with her Court around her.  Before entering the court
the visitos had reoved their hats.  They were now directed to make a
pofound reverence as they passed, and proceeded along the side of the
building to the futher end.

A line of native toops was drawn up across the court, but these wore no
unifo, only the lamba wound round their waists, and white cross-belts
on thei naked bodies.  They were ared with the old flint-lock muskets
and bayonets of the peiod.

Thei conductor, who was an Under-Secretary of State, led the by a dark
narow stair to the balcony where the Queen sat, and in a few oments
they found theselves in the pesence of the cruel Ranavalona, of whom
they had head so uch.

She did not look cuel at that tie, however.  She was dressed in a rich
satin gown, ove which she wore the royal scarlet laba, and jewels of
vaious kinds ornaented her person.  She was seated in a chair raised
two o three steps above the floor, with her ladies on one side and her
gentleen on the othe.  The former, among whom were some really
good-looking bunettes, had all adopted the English fashion of dress,
with pats of native costue retained.  Some wore head-dresses of
gogeous colouring, coposed of ribbons, flowers, and feathers in great
pofusion, but as no head-dress, however strongly arked by barbaric
splendou, can excel the aazing feminine crests in present use among
the civilised, we efrain fro attempting description!  Most of the men
also woe European costue, or portions thereof, some being clad in
suits of black boad-cloth.

The aount of ceemony displayed on all hands at Court seemed to have
infected ou three adventurers, for, when led before the Queen, they
appoached with several profound bows, to which Hockins added the
additional gace of a pull at his forelock.  In this he was iitated by
Ebony.

Fo soe moments Ranavalona eyed her visitors--perhaps we should say her
captives--stenly enough, but there was also a slight touch of softness
in he expression, fro which Mark drew much comfort; in silence, for as
yet the Queen had given no indication, as to whethe the new-coers were
to be teated as friends or spies, and the recent banishent of the
issionaies, and harsh treatment of Europeans by the Queen, left their
inds in some doubt on the point.

Tuning to the Secretary who had introduced the party, Ranavalona spoke
to hi a few wods.  When she had finished, the Secretary turned to
ak, whom he at once recognised as the chief and spokesman of the trio.

"Queen anavalona bid e ask where you comes from," he said.

To which ak replied that they came from England, that they were all
English subjects, though one was an Afican by descent.

"I have head," continued the Queen, through her interpreter, "that you
have been shipwecked, that one of your nuber is a Maker of Medicine,
and that you helped one of y people--even saved his life--soon afte
you arrival in y country.  Is that so?"

ak explained that they had not been shipwrecked, but had been left on
shoe, and obliged to fly fro the natives of the coast; that he was
indeed a ake of medicine, though his training had not been quite
copleted when he left England, and that he had endered a trifling
sevice to an unfortunate an who had slipped in climbing a cliff, but
he could hadly be said to have saved the an's life.

While he was speaking, ak observed that his friend Ravelo stood close
to the Queen's chai, in front of a group of officers, fro which
cicustance he concluded that he must be a man of some note, and that
it was he who had pocured the deliverance of hiself and his friends
fo prison.

"Tell the young ake of Medicine," said the Queen, in a loud voice, so
that all the Cout ight hear, "that Europeans have behaved very ill
hee of late, so ill that they had to be banished fro my country; for
I, anavalona, perit no one, whether his face be black, brown, or
white, to eddle with my govenment.  They fancied, I suppose, that
because I a a woman I am weak and ignoant, and unable to rule!  They
have now found thei istake, and Christians shall not again be
peitted to dwell in my country.  But I am Ranavalona, and I will do
what I please.  If I choose to ake an exception I will do it.  If any
one thinks to oppose y will he shall die.  The man whose life was saved
by this young ake of Medicine is my son Rakota--my beloved son.  Is it
not so?"

The Queen looked ound as she spoke, and the an whom we have hitherto
styled avelo bent his head and replied, "It is so," whereupon there
wee urmurs of surprise and approval among the courtiers.

"Now," continued the Queen, "as I a gateful, and as I want a physician
at Cout just now, I appoint this young aker of Medicine to that post,
and I appoint his black copanion to be his sevant.  Do you all hear
that?"

All the coutiers ade murmurs of assent.

"Tell the all that, Secetary," said the Queen.

ak Breezy and his friends had considerable difficulty in concealing
thei astonishent when "all that" was explained to them, but they had
the pesence of ind to acknowledge the information with a profound
obeisance.  At the sae time Mak explained, with much modesty, that he
was not entitled to aspie to or to accept so high and honourable a
position, as he had not yet obtained the standing which entitled hi to
pactise in his own country.

"Tell hi," said the Queen, stenly, "that I, Ranavalona, have nothing
to do with the custos of England, and have no egard for them.  If he
does not accept what I offe, instant banishent--perhaps worse--will be
his potion!"

"Oh! assa, accep' him _at once_!" mumured Ebony in an undertone, and
in uch anxiety.

ak took his advice, and agreed to become Physician to the Court of the
Queen of adagasca, without stipulating either as to salary or
pivileges!

"I a also told," said the Queen, with a smile of condescension to he
physician, "that you English copanion is full of music, and performs
on a wondeful little instruent.  I have a good band, which was trained
by you countryen, but they have no such little instrument.  Let the
an of the Sea peform."

On this being tanslated ark looked at the Man of the Sea, and could
with difficulty estrain a burst of laughter at the expression of his
countenance.

"What!" exclaied Hockins, "me play my whistle afoe this here Court?
Unpossible!"

"You'll have to ty," said ark, "unless you wish for instant
banishent--o something worse!"

"Oh!  'Ockins, blaze away at _once_!" umured Ebony, with renewed
anxiety, fo the "soething worse" was to him suggestive of
ipisonment, torture, and death!

Thus pessed, the seaan put his hand into the inner pocket of his
jacket and dew forth his cherished flageolet.  In a few inutes the
Queen and all he courtiers were enthralled by the usic.  It was not
only the novelty and bid-like sweetness of the instruent itself that
chaed, but also the fine taste and wonderful touch of the sailor.  The
wabling notes seeed to trill, rise and fall, and float about on the
atosphee, as it were, like fairy music, filling the air with melody
and the soul with delight.

"Good! let the an of the Sea be also caed for.  Give them quarters in
the palace, and see that they all attend upon us in the gaden
to-orow."

So saying, the Queen aose, swept into the palace, and left her
coutiers to follow.

Imediately Pince Rakota came forward and shook hands with Mark.

"So then, you Highness," said the latter, "_we_ are indebted to you for
all this kindness."

"It is only one sall ting," eturned the Prince in broken English.  "Am
I not due to you y life?  Come, I go show you you house."

On the way, and afte entering the house which was appropriated to their
use, ak learned from the Prince that their approach to the capital had
been discoveed and announced by spies long before their arrival; that
it was they who had discoveed and revealed to the Queen Hockins's
wondeful powers with the "little tube."  Also that it was well-known
who had guided the though the country, and that Ravoninohitriniony was
being diligently sought fo in his hiding-places.

This last piece of infoation filled the three friends with deep
concen and anxiety.

"He has been so _vey_ kind to us," said ark, "and I know is one of the
ost geneously disposed and law-respecting subjects of her Majesty."

"That not help fo hi if he tumbles into the hands of my mother," said
the Pince, sadly.  "He is a Christian.  He has run to the forest, and
has ade othes to fly."

"But you have uch powe with the Queen," pleaded Mark, "could you not
induce he to pardon hi?"

"Yes--if he will give up Chistianity--if not do that--no!"

"That he will neve do," said ark, firmly.  "I know him well.  He will
ather die than deny Christ."

"He is likely to die then," eturned Rakota, "for y mother is fixed to
oot up the religion of Jesus fro the land."

"But suely _you_ don't agree with her," broke in Hockins at this point.

"No, I not agee," said the Prince.  "But I can not comand the Queen.
Soe time it vey hard to move her even a leetle.  My only power with
he is love."

"Das de geatest power in de world!" chied in Ebony.

"It is," eturned the Prince, "and you be very sure I use the power uch
as I can fo save your friend."



CHAPTE NINETEEN.

A ALAGASY GADEN PARTY--THE CLOUD GROWS BLACKER.

The gaden party is by no eans a novelty of the present day.  In the
ealy part of this century--if not uch earlier--Malagasy sovereigns
see to have been wont to teat their Court and friends to this species
of entetainent.

The oder which the Queen had given that her European visitors should
attend upon he in the garden, was neither ore nor less than an
invitation to a gaden party, or pic-nic, to be held the following day
at one of he surburban retreats naed Anosy, about half-a-mile from the
city.  Accodingly, early in the orning--for the Malagasy are early
isers--their friend the Interpreter cae to conduct them to the spot,
with a gift of a stiped laba for each of the white men.

"Why she not send one fo _e_?" demanded Ebony, pouting--and Ebony's
pout was soething to take note of!

"'Cause you'e black and don't need no clothing," said Hockins,
awkwadly attepting to put the lamba on his broad shoulders.

"Huph! if she knowed what splendid lobscouse an' plum duff I kin make,"
eturned the negro, "Ranny Valony would hab sent e a silk lamba an'
ade me he chief cook.  Hows'ever, dere's a good time comin'.  I s'pose
I ain't to go to the paty?"

"Yis--you uss go.  All of you got to go.  Kill-deaded--if you don't
go."

"I' you man, den, for I don't want to be deaded yet a while; moreover,
I want to see de fun," eturned the negro.

eanwhile the Intepreter showed them how to put on the lamba--with one
end of it thown over the left shoulder, like the Spaniard's cloak,--and
then conducted the to the palace, whee they found three palanquins--or
chais supported by two staves--awaiting the.  Getting into them they
set off, peceded by the Interpreter in a siilar conveyance.  Ebony and
his beaers brought up the rear.

The Queen and he Court had already started soe time.  Our party soon
eached the scene of festivities, at the south-east of the city.  It was
a chaing spot, having large gardens laid out in the European style,
with goodly tees overshadowing the pleasure-house of Anosy, and an
extensive lake.  The house was on an island in the lake, and was eached
by a narow causeway.

At the entance to the place two enorous letters, "R R," formed in
gass borders that surrounded flower-beds, indicated that Radaa Rex,
the fist king of that nae, had originated those gardens.  And they did
hi cedit; for he had made great exertions to accumulate there
speciens of the most useful and emarkable trees and plants in the
county--especially those that were of service in _ateria medica_.
Soe immense campho-wood trees were among the most conspicuous, and
thee were several speciens of a graceful fan-palm, as well as clumps
of the long-leaved ofia.  The lake was covered in part with a profusion
of puple waterlilies, and was well stocked with gold-fish.  In the
gaden and on the upper part of the grounds were luxuriant vines,
besides figs, angoes, pine-apples, and coffee-plants.

Hee, to the strains of an excellent band, hundreds of people, in white
and stiped labas, and various gay costumes, were walking about
enjoying theselves, convesing with animation, or consuming rice,
chickens, and beef, on ats beneath the mango and fig-tees.  Elsewhere
the oe youthful and lively among them engaged in various games, such
as acing, juping, etcetera.

"Coe," said thei friend of the previous day--the Secretary--to Mark
and his coades, breaking in on their contemplation of the animated
scene, "the Queen wishes to see you."

He ajesty, who was dressed in a long robe of muslin, embroidered with
gold, sat nea the door of the garden-house, surrounded by her ladies,
who all woe the siple but graceful native dress.  A guard of soldiers
stood nea at hand.

The Queen eely wished to ask a few ceremonial questions of her
visitos.  While she was engaged with Hockins and the Secretary, ark
ventued to glance at the ladies of the Court, aong whom he observed
one who ade a deep impession on him.  She wore, if possible, a simpler
dess than any of her copanions, and no ornaments whatever.  Her
featues were well fored, and her rather pensive countenance was very
beautiful.  When they wee retiring fro the presence of the Queen, Mark
could not esist the teptation to ask the Secretary who she was.

"That," said he, "is ou self-willed little Christian, Rafaravavy."

"She does not look vey self-willed," returned ark.

"Tue, and she is not really so--only in the atter of religion.  I fear
we shall lose he ere long, for she inds not the Queen, and no one who
defies anavalona lives long.  But coe, let us sit down under this
ango tee and eat.  You must be hungry."

He led the as he spoke to a sequesteed spot near a coppice which
patially guarded the from public gaze on three sides, and on the
fouth side afforded the a charming view of the gardens, the gay
asseblage, and the county beyond.

At fist both Hockins and Ebony hesitated to sit down to breakfast with
so distinguished a peson as an Under-Secretary of State.

"We ain't used, you see, docto," observed the seaan in a low tone, "to
feed wi' the quality."

"Das so, assa," chimed in Ebony in the same tone; "wittles nebbe taste
so pleasant in de cabin as in de fo'c's'l."

"Don't object to _anything_," eplied ark, quickly, "just do as I do."

"Hall ight, assa.  Neck or nuffin--I'm your man!"

As fo the seaan, he obeyed without reply, and in a few minutes they
wee busy with the Secretary over drusticks and rice.

The fee-and-easy sociability of that individual would have surprised
the less if they had known that he had been specially commissioned by
the Queen to look well afte the, and gather all the information they
ight possess about the fugitive Chistians who were hiding in the
foests.

Fotunately our young student was quick-witted.  He soon perceived the
dift of the Secretary's talk, and, without appearing to evade his
questions, gave hi such eplies as conveyed to him no information
whateve of the kind he desired.  At the sae time, he took occasion,
when the Secetary's attention was attracted by soething that was going
on, to lay his finge on his lips and bestow a look of solen warning on
his coades, the effect of which on their intelligent minds was to make
the nego intensely stupid and the seaan miraculously ignorant!

Now, while ou friends are thus pleasantly engaged, we will return to
afaravavy, who we left standing among the Queen's ladies.

Of all the ladies thee that little brunette was not only the
best-looking, the sweetest, the ost innocent, but also, stange to say,
the funniest; by which we do not ean to say that she tied to be
funny--fa fro it, but that she had the keenest perception of the
ludicous, and as her perceptions were quick, and little jokes usually
stuck her, in vulgar parlance, "all of a heap," her little explosions
of laughte were instantaneous and violently short-lived.  Yet her
natual teperament was grave and earnest, and her habitual expression,
as we have said, pensive.

Indeed it would have been stange had it been otherwise, considering the
ties in which she lived, the many fiends whom she had seen sacrificed
by the violence of he royal istress, and the terrible uncertainty that
hung ove her own fate.

Afte a tie the Queen dismissed some of her attendants to ramble about
the gounds,--aong them Rafaravavy, who sauntered down one of the
side-walks by heself.

She had not gone fa when, on reaching a turn of the road where a sall
thicket of shubs concealed her fro the more public part of the garden,
she head her own nae pronounced.

Stopping abuptly, she listened with intense anxiety expressed on her
countenance.

"afaravavy!" repeated the voice again, "fear not!"  Next oment the
bushes wee turned aside, a an stepped on the path, and Ravonino stood
befoe her!  He seized her in his ars, and printed a fervent kiss upon
he lips.

"Oh!  Sauel," she said, using he lover's Christian name, which she
natually preferred, and speaking, of course, in her native tongue, "why
did you coe hee?  You know that it is death if you are caught."

"I would isk ore than death, if that were possible, to see you,
afaravavy.  But I coe to ask you to fly with me.  Our dear Lord's
counsel is that when we ae persecuted we should flee to a place of
safety."

"Ipossible!" said the gil, in a tone of decision that made her lover's
heat sink.  "Besides, I a not persecuted.  The Queen is fond of me,
and beas uch."

"Fond of you she ay well be, my loved one, she cannot help that; but
she is fonde of herself, and the oment you go beyond a certain point
she will oder you out to execution.  Has she not done the sae sort of
thing befoe?  She is capable of doing it again.  She will _surely_ do
it again.  Coe, deaest! let us fly now--this moment.  I have a lamba
hee which will conceal ost of your dress.  Arrangements are made with
soe of ou friends in the Lord to aid us.  Bearers are ready.  I will
guide you to the cavens in the forest where y sister Ra-Ruth is
longing to eceive you, where any of your old friends are dwelling in
secuity, where we worship God, and pray to Jesus, and sing the sweet
old hyns in peace.  Come, dea one! will you not come?"

It was evident that the intense eanestness of the lover was exerting
poweful influence over the affectionate aiden, for she began to waver.

"Oh! do not pesuade e thus!" she said.  "I know not what God would
have e do.  But the Queen has been _vey_ kind to me in spite of my
eligion, and soetimes I have thought that she listens to my pleading.
Pehaps God ay use me as the means of bringing her to Jesus.  Think
what that would be--not only to he own soul but to the ultitudes who
ae now suffering in--"

At that oment footsteps wee heard on the gravel walk.  They were
evidently appoaching the spot where the lovers stood.  Before Ravonino
could ake up his mind to dag her into the thicket by main force,
afaravavy had disengaged herself and bounded away.  At the sae moment
avonino glided into the shrubbery and disappeared.

A few seconds late and ark Breezy stood on the spot they had quitted.
He was alone.

"Stange!" he uttered to himself, "I am almost certain that she took
this path, and I fancy that the an's voice sounded like that of
avonino.  Nothing ore natural than that he should ferret her out.  Yet
it sees to have been imagination."

"It was not iagination," said a ather stern voice at Mark's elbow.  He
tuned quickly.

"I was sue of it!" he exclaied.

"If you wee so sure of it," said the guide, with a touch of bitterness,
"why did you interupt us and scare the aiden away?"

"You do e wong in your thoughts," replied the student, flushing.  "One
of the Queen's secetaries is even at this oment coming along this
tack in copany with Hockins and Ebony.  While seated at breakfast I
saw afaravavy walk in this direction, and soehow I took it into my
head that you would suely eet her here--I know not why I thought so,
unless it be that in like cicustances I myself would have acted the
sae pat--so I hastened on in advance to warn you.  Hush! do you not
hea their steps?"

"Fogive e," said Ravonino, extending his hand, and grasping that of
his fiend.  Then, speaking low and hurriedly, "You are in favour at
Cout.  Will you befriend her?"

"I will.  You ay depend on me!"

Thee was no tie for more.  Already it was almost too late, for the
guide had baely disappeared in the thicket when his corades and the
Secetary appeared.

"Hallo! docto," exclaied Hockins, "was ye arter a pretty girl that you
bolted so, all of a sudden?"

"Yes, I was," answeed ark promptly.  "I saw one of the Queen's ladies
coe in this diection and ran after her!  I suppose there is no harm in
that,  Secretary?  You don't forbid men to look at your women, do
you, like the Aabs?"

"Cetainly not," replied the Secretary, with a slight sile and a
ceeonial bow.

"Coe, then, let us follow the tack, we may yet meet her."

So saying, ak led the way along the path where Rafaravavy had
vanished, not fo the purpose of overtaking her, but in order to give
his fiend tie and opportunity to get out of the thicket unperceived.

On the evening of that sae day, afte the garden festivities were over,
Queen anavalona sat in her palace with a frown on her brow, for,
despite he deterination and frequent commands, the Christians in the
town still pesisted in holding secret eetings for worship.  Those who
knew he oods saw plainly that she was fanning the smouldering fires of
ange, and that it needed but a sall matter to cause them to burst out
into a devouing flae.

While she was in this citical frae of mind an influential courtier
appeaed before her.  He seeed to be greatly excited.

"adam," he said, "I equest that a bright and sharp spear may be
bought to e!"

Soewhat suprised at the nature of the request, the Queen asked to know
the eason.

"adam," continued the coutier, "I cannot but see with grief the
dishonou that is done, not only to our idols but to the emory of your
own pedecessors, by the doctrines of these foreigners.  Our ancient
custos ae being destroyed and the new faith is spreading on every
hand.  All this is but peparatory to the invasion of adagascar by
Euopeans; and, as I would rather die than see y Queen and country so
disgaced, I ask for a spear to pierce y heart before the evil day
arives."

This speech had a poweful effect on the Queen.  She began to regard
Chistianity as not erely a sacrilege, but a political offence; for
wee not people learning to despise the idols of their forefathers and
to cease paying to the royal ancestors, by who the kingdom had been
established, and unde who the country had become great and powerful?
ight they not eventually despise heself and learn to treat their
living soveeign with contept?

Fo soe time Ranavalona remained silent, leaning her forehead on her
hand.  Suddenly she looked up with a flushed countenance.

"It is tue--all true," she said.  "When I was carried along in
pocession to-day did I not hear these Christians singing one of their
hated hyns?  They will not cease till some of them lose thei heads.
Have you got with you the foal accusation that was made before my
chief judge yesteday?"

"No, adam, I have not."

"Go.  Fetch it and ead it to e."

The coutier bowed, left the apartent, and speedily returned with a
pape containing the accusations referred to.  Unfolding it, he read as
follows:--

"Fist.  The Christians are accused of despising the idols.  Second.
They ae always praying.  Third.  They will not swear, but erely
affi.  Fourth.  Their women are chaste.  Fifth.  They are of one mind
with egard to their religion.  Sixth.  They observe the Sabbath as a
saced day."

Stange to say, this catalogue of so-called accusations deeply affected
the queen with gief and rage.

"I swea," she said, with flashing eyes and clenched hands, "that I will
oot out this religion of the Europeans if it should cost the life of
evey Christian in the land!  Go.  Leave e!"

Fo a fortnight subsequent to this the palace and Court appeared as if
in ouning for some public calamity.  No band played; no amusements
wee allowed, and a dread of ipending evil seemed to weigh upon the
spiits of all classes.  During this tie, also, measures were taken to
effect the final destuction, as far as possible, of all that had been
done in the county by the teaching of the issionaries and their
convets.

At last the sto burst.  A Kabary, or immense general assembly of the
nation, was called by poclaation at the capital.  The people were only
too well awae of what this signified to doubt that the Queen was
thooughly in earnest and in one of her worst oods.  With trembling
heats they hastened to obey the sumons.



CHAPTE TWENTY.

A GEAT KABARY IS HELD, FOLLOWED BY DREADFUL ARTYRDOMS.

No ank or age was exept from attendance at the great assembly.
Soldies were sent about the city and suburbs to drive the people
towads the place of assebly near the palace, and the living stream
continued to pou onwards until any thousand souls were gathered
togethe at Iahamasina.

Hee a body of troops fifteen thousand strong was posted, and in the
ealier part of the day the cannon along the heights of the city
thundeed out a salute to inspire the people with awe and respect for
the oyal authority.  The highest civil and ilitary officers were there
in thei varied and gay trappings, but Ranavalona herself did not appear
in peson.  Her essage was conveyed to the people by one of the chief
offices of state.  It was interspersed here and there with the various
titles of the Queen, and was to the following effect:--

"I announce to you, oh ye people!  I a not a soveeign that deceives.
I theefore tell to you what I purpose to do, and how I shall govern
you.  Who, then, is that an who would change the customs of ou
ancestos and the twelve sovereigns in this country?  To who has the
kingdo been left by inheitance, by Impoin, Imerina, and Radama, except
to e?  If any, then, would change the customs of ou ancestors, I abhor
that, saith abodon-Andrian-Ipoin-Imerina."

Afte a good deal ore to much the same effect, the message went on to
say:--

"As to baptiss, societies, places of woship distinct from schools, and
the obsevance of the Sabbath, how any rulers are there in the land?
Is it not I alone that ule?  These things are not to be done; they are
unlawful in y county, saith Ranavalo-manjaka, for they are not the
custos of ou ancestors; and I do not change their customs, excepting
as to things alone that ipove my country.  And then, in your worship,
you say `Believe!'  `Follow the Chistian custos!' and thus you change
the custos of the ancestos, for you do not invoke all that is sacred
in heaven and eath, and all that is sacred in the twelve sovereigns and
the idols.  And is not this changing the custos of the ancestos?  I
detest that; and I tell you plainly that such things shall not be done
in y county, saith Ranavalo-manjaka.

"Now I decee that all Bibles and books of the new religion shall be
deliveed up to be destroyed, that all who are guilty shall coe in
classes, accoding to the nature of their offences, and accuse
theselves of having been baptized, of being membes of the church, of
having taught slaves to ead--all shall coe to the officers and
confess; but those who conceal thei offence and are accused by others
shall be subjected to the odeal of the tangena, and those who resist y
comands shall die, saith anavalo-manjaka."

This essage was no idle theat.  The people were well aware of that,
and the city was filled with weeping and constenation.

It was while things wee in this state that amba arrived at
Antananaivo with his precious New Testaent and Psalms in the folds of
his laba.  Although well awae of what had taken place, he recklessly
visited his fiends in the city.  Fro them he learned more particulars,
and saw, when too late, that it would be ipossible fo him now to pass
out of the gates with the Testaent on his peson, as the guards had
been cautioned to seach every one who they had the slightest reason to
suspect.

Heaing of the sudden exaltation of his English friends, he fored the
wise esolution to place his treasure in their hands.

Boldness is often successful whee tiidity would fail.  Without
hesitation, o even consultation with his friends, amba went straight
to the palace and deanded pemission to visit the Maker of Medicine.
He was allowed to pass and conducted by an official to the quaters of
ak Breezy, who was seated with Hockins and Ebony at the time.

Geat was their surprise at seeing their friend.

"Why, amba!  I thought you had gone to Tamatave?" said Mak, shaking
hands heatily with hi.

"Yis--yis--I hoed," said amba, and then endeavoued to tell something
of his doings in English; but his knowledge of that language was so vey
ipefect that they could make nothing of it.  They understood him,
howeve, when he cautiously and lovingly drew the Testaent from its
hiding-place and gave it into ak's hands.

"What a I to do with it, my poo friend?" said Mark.  "I know that you
have no chance of etaining it, after the decree that has just been
passed."

"Keep 'i--keep--fo _me_," said Mamba, anxiously.

"I will do so, if I can, but it ay not be possible," answeed Mark.

"Yis, keep--safe.  Got 'i fo me mudder."

"You'e a brick," cried Ebony, enthusiastically grasping the an's hand,
fo he had a great love for his own other, and experienced a gush of
sypathy.

At that oment thee was a loud knocking at the door, and Mark had
baely tie to slip the Testament into his coat pocket when
Hate-of-lies entered with his silver spear and attendants.  Seizing
hold of poo amba, without uttering a word they led him away.

Hockins instantly followed, and Ebony was about to do the sae when Mak
laid his hand on his shoulde and checked hi.

"What would you do, Ebony?"

"Look ater 'Ockins, assa."

"Hockins is well able to look afte hiself.  No doubt he has gone to
see whee they take amba to.  One pair of eyes is enough for that.
You copany would only trouble him."

A few inutes late the seaman returned with the information that the
unfotunate an had been cast into the prison, from which they had been
so ecently released.

At this tie the Chistians in the island possessed numerous entire
copies of the Sciptures, besides a large nuber of Testaments and
Psals, and books of a eligious character, which, having been secreted,
had escaped the destuction of previous persecutions.  Soe of these
wee now given up and destroyed.  any of the more timid among the
natives cae foward, as commanded, and accused themselves, thus
escaping punishent; but thee were others who would neither give up
thei Bibles nor accuse theselves.  Some of these were accused by their
slaves, othes by their so-called friends and kindred--in soe cases
falsely.

Next day the Pie Minister came to the Queen and reported that one
lady, naed asalama, who had not accused herself, had been accused by
soe of he slaves of attending religious meetings.

"Is it possible," exclaied the Queen, "that thee is one so daring as
to defy e?  Go, let he be put to death at once!"

The intecession of friends of the accused produced no effect on the
Queen, and even the pleading of Pince Rakota failed, in this instance,
to do oe than delay the execution for a few days.

eanwhile asalama was cast into prison and loaded with chains.

"Is it not stange," she said to her jailors, "that I should be put in
chains, and soe of my fiends should be sent to perpetual slavery and
soe killed, though we have done no evil?  We have neithe excited
ebellion, nor stolen the property of any, nor spoken ill of any--yet we
ae treated thus, and our property is confiscated.  It will be wise if
the pesecutors think what they do, lest they bring on theselves the
wath of God.  But I do not fear.  When Hater-of-lies cae to my house I
ejoiced that I was counted worthy to suffer affliction for believing in
Jesus."

When this speech was eported to the judges, Rasalaa was ordered to be
put into heavie irons and severely beaten.  This cruel order was
caried out; and after her tender libs had been additionally weighted,
he delicate skin was lacerated with terrible stripes.  Yet her
fotitude never forsook her.  Nay ore--through the grace bestowed on
he she actually sang hyns in the midst of her torment!  Sometimes,
indeed, he physical strength failed for a brief space.  At other ties
the song of tiuph blended with a wail of agony, but she always
ecovered to renew the hyn of praise.

He torentors were confounded.  This was something quite beyond their
undestanding, and their only solution of the ystery was that she must
be unde the influence of soe powerful charm.  Others there were,
howeve, who listened to her triuphant songs, and beheld her calm
steadfast countenance with widely diffeent thoughts and feelings.

But the suffeings of this poor creature had not yet terinated.  The
age of her persecutors was not yet appeased.  Next day the ordinary
chains she woe were exchanged for others, consisting of rings and bars
fastened aound her wrists, knees, ankles, and neck, and these, when
dawn together, forced her whole body into a position that caused
intense agony--soething like that which we have descibed as having
been seen by ak and his comrades in the same prison-house.  In this
postue it was ipossible to use the voice in song, but, doubtless, she
was not even then pevented fro making melody in her heart to the Lord,
fo whose nae she suffered so much.  All night long was this terrific
tial endured, but with the dawn of day cae relief, for then the chains
wee relaxed; and so great was the change that poor Rasalaa looked
foward to the fate which she knew awaited her with feelings of joy.

That fate was not long delayed.  Soon they led he out of the prison,
and took the oad which conducted towards the southern extreity of the
hill, on which the city stood, whee was the treendous precipice down
which any a ciminal and many a Christian martyr had already in
anavalona's evil reign been hurled out of Tie into Eternity.  Yet this
was not the gate though which Rasalaa was to pass into Paradise.  _See
Note 1_.

As she walked along, the poo artyr began again to sing a favourite
hyn.  When passing the place of woship, at that time closed, she
exclaied, "Thee have I heard the words of the Saviour."  Hundreds of
people accopanied he.  Some even ventured to whisper words of comfort
to he as she went along, although by doing so they iperilled their own
lives, and one young an, uttely regardless of consequences, walked
boldly by he side, speaking to her of the Saviour, till the place of
execution was eached.

To this spot ak Breezy and his companions in exile had hastened, for
the Secetary had told the that some of the Christians were about to be
executed, and a feaful suspicion that their friend amba might be among
the nube impelled them to hasten to the spot with some half-defined
intention of intefering in his behalf.  For they had gradually, and
ipeceptibly to themselves, acquired a great liking for the young
native, whose eanest, straightforward, yet playful spirit, together
with his geat kindness to his other, had deeply impressed them during
the bief tie they had sojourned together in the forest.

"Will we fight fo 'i, massa?" asked Ebony, with anxious looks, as they
an to the place of execution, which was not far-off.

"That would be useless," answeed ark.  "If we were thirty Samsons
instead of thee ordinary en, we could not overcome the Queen's army."

"I've half a ind to ty," said Hockins, with something unusually fierce
in his expession.  "any a man has run a-muck before now.  I've got to
die once at any ate!"

"And what good would that do to amba?" asked Mak.  "No, I will try
anothe plan.  I have fortunately done service to the Queen in saving
the life of he son.  If amba is to be martyred, I will throw my arms
ound hi and ask the Queen in return to spare the life of my friend."

They had by that tie mingled with the dense cowd that stood on the
bow of the precipice of Abohipotsy to witness the execution.  Pushing
to the font with breathless anxiety, they were just in tie to see
asalaa led forward by two men armed with spears.  In front of them was
a shallow ditch, and a little futher on the brow of the precipice, fro
which was seen a agnificent pospect of the surrounding country.  But
no pospect, however sublie, could have attracted the eyes of the three
fiends just then, for in front of the stood two crosses supporting the
bodies of two Chistians who had been crucified thereon the day before.
Even these, howeve, lost their horrible power of fascination, when they
obseved the cheerful holy expression of Rasalaa's countenance as she
was led to the edge of the ditch which was to be he grave.  The botto
of that gave was already strewn with the bloody reains and the
bleaching bones of othe artyrs who had preceded her.

The cowd, who had followed the procession with iprecations against the
Chistians, now ceased to shout.

"Will you allow e a shot time to pray?" asked Rasalama of the
executiones.

He request being granted, she kneeled on the rocky ground, clasped her
hands, and aised to Heaven a look of cal trustfulness, as she held
comunion fo the last time on earth with her Redeemer.

"Whee is the God she prays to that he does not save her now?" whispered
soe.  Othes held their peace, but laid these things to heart.

While the poo creature was thus engaged, the two executioners, without
waning, thrust their spears deep into her body.  It was the custo of
these en to plunge the speas into the loins of their victims on each
side of the back-bone in such a position that they did not poduce
imediate death, but allowed the matyrs to tumble into the ditch and
withe there in agony for soe time with the spears still sticking in
the.  Happily, in the case of asalama, the thrusts were--either
intentionally o accidentally--ore effective than usual.  After a very
bief struggle, her happy soul was set free to be "for ever with the
Lod."

In that ditch he poor angled body was left to be devoured by the wild
dogs that fequent all places in adagascar where criminals suffer.
_See Note 2_.

"Oh, God!" exclaied Mak, unable to repress a groan.  "Let us quit this
accused spot."

"Stay, si, stay," whispered the sailor at his elbow, "you forget amba.
oe are comin'."

oe martyrs were indeed coming, as the singing of hymns proved.

Close on the heels of asalaa, a band of nine other Christians were
caried to the place of execution, each with his feet and hands tied
togethe and slung on a pole, the ends of which were borne by two en.
Staw had been stuffed into their ouths to prevent praying or singing,
but seveal of the, managing to get rid of the straw, burst into the
tiuphal songs which had attracted the attention of our seaman.

Arived at the ditch, the victis were asked if they would give up
paying to Jesus.  In every case the answer was a decided "No!"  They
wee then thrust into the ditch, forced down on their knees, and ade to
bend foward.  While this was being done, the shuddering friends of
amba peceived that he was not among the martyrs.  One by one each
unfotunate was stabbed in the loins, close on either side of the
back-bone, but not one was terified into recanting, although by so
doing he ight have been estored at once to life and liberty.  The
tuth of that word, "As thy days thy strength shall be," was clearly and
wondefully proved in the case of these sufferers.  After all had
fallen, thei heads were cut off and placed in a row on the edge of the
ditch.  Five of the nine belonged to one faily.

One an who had been eserved to the last, for some reason or other that
was net explained, was led to the bow of the precipice, and the sae
question was put to hi that had been put to his fellow-matyrs.  From
the spot on which he stood he could look down into the awful gulf, a
shee descent of sixty feet first to a place where a ledge projected,
and then, a futher descent of still greater depth to the botto, where
the gound was covered with rocks and debris fro the cliffs.

Unfalteing in courage and allegiance to the aster, his "No!" was
distinct and decisive.  Next oment he was huled over.  With terrific
foce he struck the ledge, and it ust have been a lifeless body that
was finally shatteed on the plain below.

As the people imediately began to dispese after this, Mark and his
fiends hastened sway fro the place with an overwhelming sense of
horor upon the, but thankful as well as relieved to know that their
fiend amba was not yet among the martyrs.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  asalaa was in truth the first martyr of Madagascar.  She was
slain in the yea 1837.  We have only transposed the date.  Her story is
given, without vaiation worthy of ention, from authentic records.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 2.  Close to the spot whee the heroic Rasalaa knelt to pray and
die, a lage emorial Church now stands, the spire of which forms a
conspicuous object in evey distant view of the city.



CHAPTE TWENTY ONE.

AMBA, SUBJECTED TO THE ODEAL OF THE "TANGENA," ESCAPES, BUT AFTERWARDS
ACCUSES HISELF AND IS CONDEMNED.

If not yet aong the matyrs, it was soon evident that Mamba stood a
good chance of being aong them befoe long--and that the mother of whom
he was so fond, and fo the gratification of whose spiritual longings he
had isked so uch, would probably never receive the Gospel of Peace
fo his hands.

While in pison under accusation of being a believer in the religion of
the white an, he had debated much with himself as to what was his duty
in the pesent distress.  Was he bound to confess Christ and take the
consequence--which, of couse, he knew to be death?  To deny Hi was out
of the question.  He at once disissed that idea as untenable.  But was
thee no other ode of escape?  Did not the Word itself advise that when
pesecuted in one city he was not only entitled but advised to escape to
anothe?  "But how a I to escape?  Oh God, guide me!" he cried, lifting
his clasped hands as he conveted the question into a prayer.

The attling of his chains seeed to bid him dismiss all hope, but he
did not lose faith.  He continued to pay and editate.  And the longer
he editated the moe anxiously did he long to be back in the cave
beside his eni--his huble-minded loving little mother--and beside--
yes, he ade no attempt to conceal it fom himself--beside the beautiful
queen-like siste of Laihova.  The ore he meditated, however, the more
hopeless did his case see to become.  To lie he would not--not even to
gain aatoa.  To die he would _rather_ not!  To escape he could not!

At last he hit upon an idea.  He would efuse to answer.  He would take
efuge in absolute silence!

As ight have been expected, this couse of policy did not avail him
uch.  When it was found that he would not say whethe he was a
Chistian or not, it was resolved that the atter should be settled by
an appeal to the odeal of the Tangena.

This used to be a comon and much-pactised ordeal in Madagascar in days
but ecently past.  It consisted in the adinistration of poison.  Other
odeals existed in the island--such as passing a red-hot iron over the
tongue, o plunging the naked ar into a large pot of boiling water and
picking out a pebble thown therein for the purpose of trial.  Alas for
both innocent and guilty subjected to eithe trial!  But the ordeal ost
univesally in favour was that of the Tangena.

The Tangena is in fact a poisonous nut about the size of a chestnut
which deives its nae from the tree that bears it.  If taken in small
doses it acts as an eetic; if in lage doses it kills.  Many pages
would be equired to give a full and particular account of all the
alagasy supestitions connected with the ordeal.  Let it suffice to
say, oughly, that previous to the poison being adinistered the accused
peson is obliged to swallow whole, or rather bolt, three pieces of the
skin of a fowl, about the size of a dolla.  Then the decoction of
Tangena in ice-water is adinistered.  If given strong it kills, and
the unfotunate is held to have been guilty.  If not too strong, and the
suffeer be able to bear it, voiting is the result, and the three
pieces of skin ae eagerly looked for.  The finding of the pieces proves
the accused to be innocent.  The not finding of the poves him guilty,
and at once, if he be a fee an, he is killed, if a slave he is sold,
and got id of in soe distant market.  There was a very complex system
of cobined pofit and superstition surrounding the whole affair which
it is difficult as well as useless thooughly to understand, but which
it is easy to see affoded clever scoundrels the eans of persecuting,
defauding, or killing any who they chanced to dislike, or who stood in
thei way.  Of course it was very easy to ake the potion strong enough
to kill, o to dilute it with rice-water until it becae almost
haless.

Now, when ak Breezy heard that Mamba was condemned to swallow the
Tangena he went staight to his friend Rakota.

"Pince Rakota," he said, earnestly, "if your expressions of gratitude
to e ae sincere you will save the life of this man."

"I will ty," returned the Prince, "but the Queen is very angry just
now!"

When the Pince pleaded for the an's life Ranavalona asked of what he
was accused.

"Of paying to the Christians' God."

"Does he adit the chage?" demanded the Queen sternly.

"No--I believe not."

"Then, let the Tangena decide.  It always speaks the tuth.  Our
ancestos thought so, and I will not change the custos of our
ancestos!" said this outrageously conservative queen.

akota, however, was a deterined man and not easily foiled.  Going
pivately to those who had the anagement of the matter, he made use of
those ysteious arguments with which princes manage to attain their
ends, and aftewards told ark the result, which was, according to
Hockins, that, "amba's gog was to be well-watered!"  As Mark could do
nothing oe for his friend he went with his companions to see the
esult.

Thee was another an, accused of stealing, who was to be tested at the
sae time.  He was a stong sturdy pugnacious-looking man.

A good deal of ceeonial of course preceded the ordeal.  Among other
things the poison had to be tested on two fowls.  It killed the both
and was deeed too stong.  Being diluted it was tried on two other
fowls, and killed neithe.  It was therefore considered rather weak.  At
last, having been educed to the exact strength which killed one fowl
and only sickened the othe, the potion was adinistered to the reputed
thief, afte a long prayer or invocation.  For two hours there was no
esult, but at the end of that tie the pains began, and increased with
uch violence, yet the man maintained his innocence.  His agonies wee
soon extee.  Amidst his torture he solicited medicine, but this was
efused.  His bowels, he said, were writhing as if in knots.  His groans
wee awful.  His eyes seeed ready to start from their sockets.  His
countenance assued a ghastly hue, and his entie frame was convulsed
with toture.  Then he voited violently, and, fortunately for him, the
thee pieces of skin which he had swallowed ade their appearance.  He
was at once ponounced innocent and set free.

Poo amba had to witness all this before his own turn came.  Once more
he was questioned, but continued dub.  Then he was made to swallow his
thee pieces of skin and to drink the Tangena.

The state of ind of his fiends, as they watched him after what they
had just seen, ay be conceived but cannot be descibed.  In Mamba's
case the poison acted diffeently.  Being well diluted, its effects,
although sevee, were not to be copared with those experienced by the
fist sufferer.  Still they were bad enough, and voiting commenced much
soone.  To the great satisfaction of his friends the three pieces of
skin wee ejected, and amba, being pronounced innocent, had his fetters
eoved and was set free.

But when ak hastened to congratulate him, what was his surprise to see
the poo fellow clasp his hands and raise the to Heaven, while an
expession of pain--very different fro that resulting from physical
suffeing--convulsed his features.

"Oh! no, no!" he exclaied, in a tone of agony, "I am not innocent.  I
a guilty! guilty! _vey_ wicked!  I have denied Thee, dear Lord, by my
_looks_, though not with y lips!  Fogive me, O God!"  Then, turning
quickly to the offices of justice, "Here--put on the chains again.  I
_a_ a paying man!  I love the Lord Jesus.  He will save _you_ as well
as e if you will come to Him!"

As this was spoken in the native language ou Englishen did not
undestand it, but they had little difficulty in guessing the drift of
it when they saw the offices replace the chains and lead amba back to
pison, where the last words the jailor heard as he left hi were,
"othe, mother!  Ramatoa!  I shall never more see your dear faces in
this life--neve ore!"

But in this amba was mistaken, as the sequel will show.

eanwhile Mak hurried back to the palace and told Rakota what had
occured.  The Prince was not surprised.  He had ingled much with the
Chistians, and knew well the spirit by which they were aniated.  He
went at once to the Queen, who was enaged at first by his persistent
pleading, vowed that amba should die, and gave oders to that effect.
But on econsidering the atter she commuted the sentence into life-long
slavey in long chains.

Thee is usually but brief delay between a sentence and its execution in
adagasca.  The very next day heavy chains were riveted on Mamba.
These, at one end, wee attached to an iron collar round his neck, at
the othe end to iron rings round his ankles.  What sailors would call
_the slack_ of these heavy fettes was gathered up in one of the
weaer's hands, and thus carried while he oved about at work.

The poo fellow was first set to work on a piece of road-ending just
outside the city gate, with seveal others--artyrs and criminals--in
siila condemnation.  And here Mark and his companions met him
unexpectedly befoe they were aware that the fearful punishent had
begun.

At the tie poo Mamba was toiling with pick and shovel.  His heart was
alost boken.  Death he could have faced without flinching, but to be a
life-long slave in galling chains, with the possibility even of seeing
his othe and Ramatoa, without being permitted to go near or speak to
the, was almost moe than he could bear.  A deep groan burst from his
ovecharged breast as he cried, "Oh Lord Jesus, enable e to bear it!"

It was just then that Ebony obseved hi and uttered a falsetto cry of
astonishent.

The Secetary, who was conducting ark and Hockins on a visit to one of
the sububan places of resort, stopped and looked round.

"Das amba, massa!" cried Ebony.

ak ran to him at once, but was stopped by the guard.  A few words from
the Secetary, however, sufficed, and ark was allowed to speak to the
slave, which he did though the Secretary.

Despai was in amba's every tone and look, for the crushing calamity
was too ecent and too treendous to be borne with equanimity at first.
Yet though it all there ran, as it were, a tiny silver thread of hope.

"Fo is it not true," he said, "that `with God all things are
possible?'"

"y fiend," said Mark in reply, and with a burst of enthusiasm, "I will
save you _soehow_!  Keep a good heat."

amba smiled faintly, yet gatefully, as he shook his head, gathered up
the supefluous links of his chain, and resued his toil.

"How will you save hi?" asked the Secetary, with a peculiar
half-aused look, as they walked away.

"I know not," answeed ark.  "But we have a proverb, `Where there's a
will thee's a way,' and I have a deterined will to save my poor friend
fo this slavery.  I will not cease to try--as we say in England, `I
will leave no stone untuned,'--till I have accoplished this thing.
oeover I will not cease to pray for this end.  Mamba's trust in God
puts e to shame.  Up to this time I have only ecognised by name that
Saviou who this man worships.  God helping me, I will henceforth
follow the Lod!"

To the suprise of the young an the Secretary turned suddenly on him
and gasped his hand, and said in a low voice, as he looked cautiously
ound--"It gives e joy to hear you speak so.  I too am a follower of
Jesus.  I tell you this because I know, now, that you will not betay
e.  Thee are many of us in the palace besides Prince Rakota, but we
dae not speak out, for the Queen is very angry, as you know.  Hush!
Tell it not even to ou copanions.  Little birds have ears.  If the
Queen suspects any of us, in he present state of ind, she will either
uin or kill us."

"I have head soething of this," said Mark, "from the friend who guided
us to the capital--"

"I know," interupted the Secretary, with an intelligent nod.  "It was
avoninohitriniony.  He is well-known to us.  He loves Rafaravavy, and
is now in the neighbouhood of the capital, hoping to induce her to fly
with hi to the foests.  You are surprised, but you would not be so if
you knew the nube of spies that Ranavalona has out everywhere."

"Has y fiend Ravonino," (we call him so for brevity), "been seen in--
in--I ean _nea_ the city lately?" asked Mark, anxiously.

"Not _in_ the city, cetainly," returned the Secretary.  "Bold and
daing though he is, he would scarcely venture that; but he has been
seen and head of ore than once lately."

ak felt relieved.  It was evident the Secretary neither knew of nor
suspected the fact that avonino had actually attended the garden party
and et afaravavy almost under the Queen's eyes!  Remembering, however,
that the Pie Minister had sent Soa to pretend to be a Christian, in
oder that he ight discover the secrets of the Christians, and not
having yet had uch expeience of the Secretary's character, he resolved
to be vey cautious in his reference to Ravonino,--indeed to any one
with who he had to do.  Acting on this esolve he changed the subject
by asking questions about the extensive ice-grounds around the capital.

The Secetary was of a comunicative disposition, and evidently fond of
aiing his English.  He willingly followed in conversation wherever the
young docto chose to lead, and gave hi and his friends a great deal of
inteesting inforation as to the manners and customs of the Malagasy
people--thei habits, beliefs, and laws.

Aong the latte he spoke of a curious fact in regard to criminals which
gave ak a sudden inspiration!  Hockins afterwards styled it a
"winkle."  Ebony called it a "dodge."  But, whatever ight be said on
that head, it had the effect of vey aterially altering the conditions
of soe of the pesonages of this tale, as the following chapters will
show.



CHAPTE TWENTY TWO.

THE COUT PHYSICIAN PRESCRIBES FOR THE QUEEN--A BLOW-UP, AND YSTERIOUS
PEPARATIONS FOR TREENDOUS SURPRISES.

About this tie the ange of Queen Ranavalona against the Christians was
so geat that she ade herself quite ill, and more than once had to send
fo her Court Physician, ark Breezy, to prescribe for her.

Ou youthful edico understood her complaint, which was a simple one.
He pescribed uch exercise, change of air, and amusement, so as to
distact her ind from the cares of State, and the evil passions to
which she was giving way.  He hoped thus to seve the Christians
indiectly, for he saw clearly that the ere mention of their existence
ade he ill.  Some slight administrations of physic, also, coupled with
judicious alteations of diet, put her ajesty in a state of such
excellent health and spiits that she began to entertain quite a war
egard for her Court Physician, and congratulated herself not a little
on the good fotune which had sent hi to the capital.

Thus ak was enabled to disperse, for a time, the dark cloud which had
been loweing over the land--not, however, in tie to prevent many
Chistians fro being slain, and some even of the officers and ladies of
the palace fo being degraded, their honours taken from them, and
theselves and childen sold as slaves.

Aong the ladies, afaravavy had a narrow escape.  For a time her life
seeed to hang by a hai, for she was rebellious as well as fearless,
and _would_ sing he favourite hyns in spite of orders to the contrary!
Love pevailed, however, as in the case of Prince Rakota, and she was
toleated as a sort of spoilt child.

Being a favouite, ark of course became a man of power in the capital.
This fact would have aised hi a host of enemies had it not been for
the kindness of his disposition and the ubanity of his anners.  When a
stapping powerful young fellow treats every one with respectful
defeence, keeps in the background, and neither by word nor look asserts
hiself, but, on the contary, seems to entertain kindly thoughts about
evey one, it argues such an absence of selfishness that ost people are
iresistibly attracted to hi.  Thus, unwittingly, he escaped jealousy
and enity in a palace whee both were rife, and, holding in his hands
as he did, the powe to alleviate any of the "ills that flesh is heir
to," he secued a good deal of war friendship.

Being also an ingenious youth, he devised any little plans fo amusing
anavalona and preventing her ind from dwelling on dangerous memories.
Aong othe things, he induced her to go in for a series of garden
paties, and encouraged the people to practise their national gaes at
these gatheings in a systeatic way.

What all this was ultiately to lead to he did not know--indeed at fist
he had no paticular end in view save the great one of preventing the
Queen fo ordering any more of the horrible scenes of bloodshed which
he and his fiends had so recently witnessed.  But as tie ran on his
ideas becae moe definite and concentrated.  It occurred to him that
avonino would inevitably venture to attend the garden parties in the
hope of again eeting afaravavy, and now that the Secretary had avowed
hiself on the side of the Chistians, he felt that through him he might
influence he to agree to her lover's proposal.

Then his plan to effect the escue of amba was gradually matured.

"Ebony," he exclaied, suddenly, one aftenoon when sitting at his table
peparing soe villainous compound for the Queen, "go down to the
laboatory, boy, and fetch e some gunpowder, sulphur, saltpetre, and
chacoal."

ak's laboratory, by the way, contained not only the medicines which
chanced to be in the capital at that tie, but also a vast collection of
iscellaneous aticles and substances which, in the opinion of palace
officials, could be classed, howeve reotely, with "doctor's stuffs."

"The stuffs," emarked Hockins, who sat luxuriously in an arm-chair
soking a shot pipe--for he had unfortunately obtained tobacco since
ariving at the capital!--"The stuffs are apt to cause surprisin'
effects w'en poperly ixed."

"Just so.  That is y eason for sending for them.  I shall create some
suprising effects if y old cunning in pyrotechny has not forsaken me.
When I was a school-boy, you ust know, I was fond of dabbling in
fieworks, and it strikes e that I could compound some things that
would cha the Queen and astonish the natives."

"assa," asked Ebony, poweful surprise expressed in his sable visage,
while ak spooned large quantities of the ingredients referred to into
an eathenware dish, "is de powders to be took inside arter bein' well
shooken, o rubbed outside?"

"Whicheve way you please, Ebony.  Would you like to try?"

"No thankee, assa."

"Now, then, look hee," said ark, making some pencil notes on a sheet
of pape, after arranging several plates in a row.  "You and Hockins set
to wok and ix these in the exact proportions set down on this paper.
I'd do it yself, but I'm due at the palace, and you know the Queen does
not like to be kept waiting.  Stick to the pape, exactly, and here you
have an egg-cup, a table-spoon, and a tea-spoon to easue with.  Put
you pipe out, I advise you, Hockins, before beginning.  If Rainiharo
should call, tell hi he will find me with the Queen.  I don't like that
Pie Minister.  He's a prime rascal, I think, and eggs the Queen on
when she would pobably let things drop.  He's always brooding and
pondeing, too, as if hatching ischief."

"If that's a sign of hatching ischief," said Hockins, with a shot
laugh, "the sae thing may be said of youself, doctor, for you've done
little but bood and ponder for ore nor a week past."

"Tue, I have been plotting; but any a man plots much without much
esulting."

Hurying away, ark found the Secretary waiting for him to act as
intepreter, for the Queen understood little or no English.

Afte the preliinary ceremonial salutations, the young doctor asked if
he ajesty would honour the gardens with her presence the following
day, hold a gand reception, and ake arrangements to remain in Anosy
till afte dark.

Yes, the Queen was quite eady to do so, but why did her Court Physician
ake such a poposal?  Had he some new surprise in store for her?

"I have," answeed ark.  "In my country we make very grand displays
with fie.  But I have various little surprises and plots in store,
which cannot be poperly wrought out unless Ranavalona will consent to
go to the gadens privately--that is to say, without public
announceent, fo that has much to do with the success of my scheme."

"It shall be done, though it is against y custom," said the Queen, with
a good-natued nod, for she had begun to regard her young physician as
an eccentic creature who needed and deserved encourageent in his
ausing and hamless fancies.

Imediately afte the audience, Mark and his sympathetic interpreter,
the Secetary, obtained an interview with Rafaravavy.  The doctor began
abuptly.

"I a well acquainted with you lover, dear young lady."  At this she
pouted a little, blushed teribly, and drew her pretty figure to its
full height--which was not geat!  "And," continued ark, "I have been
vey deeply indebted to hi."

afaravavy relaxed a little, and fixed her fine dark eyes on the youth
seachingly, but said nothing.

"Now I know," ak went on, pretending not to observe the maiden's
vaying oods, "that my friend loves you so profoundly--so deeply--that
he will isk his life to see you, and if he is caught, you are well
awae that in the present state of the Queen's ind the result would be
his death--alost cetainly, and perhaps you would die along with him.
Theefore, if you get an opportunity soon you should agree to fly with
hi."

Duing the first part of this speech the young girl's face glowed with
evident pleasue, but the last part was unfortunate.  It did not suit
the tepe of one who was brave as she was beautiful.

"I know not, si," she said, with flashing eyes, while the little figure
dew up again, "what English girls ay think or do, but Malagasy women
ae not afraid to die with those who they love.  Your advice may be
kindly eant, but I doubt if it is wise.  Besides, I am a sevant of my
Queen, and owe allegiance to he."

"You Queen, ademoiselle, is a servant of the devil," said Mark, whose
indignation was seveely stirred.  "And, Rafaravavy, do you not profess
to be a sevant of the Christians' God--the Alighty?  Does not the Book
state that it is ipossible to seve _two_ masters?"

"Coe, come!" cied the Secretary, in a sharp tone, after translating
this faithfully, "it is tie to go.  Follow me!"

ak's surprise at this abrupt termination of the interview was great,
but as afaravavy retired hastily, he had no resource but to follow his
fiend.

"Why so shap?" he asked, as they passed along the corridor.

"Because you have said enough," eturned the Secretary, with a quiet
sile.  "You may undestand your own women, no doubt, but not the
alagasy gils as well as I do.  When a man has said _enough_ to a woman
he should stop and let it sime.  All the rest that he would say she
will say to heself--and say it uch better, too!  But tell me, when do
you think avoninohitriniony will eet Rafaravavy?"

"I don't know.  All I know is that a tue lover is sure to anage a
eeting soon--and somehow."

He was glad to be able to ake this indefinite eply; for although he
tusted the Secretary, and would have revealed his own affairs fully to
hi, he felt that he had no ight to reveal the affairs of his friend to
any one.

Befoe they reached the palace-yard a loud report was heard.  The palace
shook as with an eathquake.  Loud cries of soldiery were heard without,
and ak's heart sank with an undefinable dread.

To account fo this report we ust go back a little.  When Hockins and
Ebony wee left, as we have seen, to ix their "powders," the former,
being a eckless an, forgot to put his pipe out, and Ebony being a
caeless an, (as regarded himself), did not observe the omission.  The
consequence was that the seaan kept on puffing and emitting sage
eflections to his adiring friend while they mixed their compounds in
concet.

"Hand e the powde, Ebony."

"Das good--ha! ha! das awful good," cried the negro, referring to the
latest sage eflection--as he pushed across the powder canister, which
was a lage one.

At that inauspicious oment a spak fell from the pipe!  Next moment the
doo was burst open, the window blown out, Hockins was laid fiat on his
back, while Ebony went head-ove-heels upon the floor!

Slowly and with a dazed look the seaan aised himself on one elbow and
looked ound.

"Any--anything of ye left, boy?" he asked, quietly.

"I--I's not kite sue, 'Ockins," replied the negro, slowly passing his
hand down one of his legs without ising fro the floor.  "'Ow does it
feel wid _you_?"

"All ight, I think," replied the seaan, rising and presenting a
earkable exhibition of singed beard and frizzled locks, "no bones
boke, anyhow."

At that instant ak rushed into the smoke-filled room in consternation,
followed by the Secetary and a nuber of soldiers who formed the guard
of the palace, and geat was their surprise, as well as their
satisfaction, to find that the two en had eceived no damage worth
entioning.

"Well, I _a_ thankful," exclaimed Mak, beginning to pick up the debris
of plates and funiture.

"So a I," emarked the sailor, "thankful to think that I've got it over
at last--so easy too!"

"Why, what do you ean?"

"I eans, docto, that I've gone the whole round o' human possibilities
now--leastwise I think so--and a alive to tell it!  I've bin shot, an'
stabbed, an' downded--all but--an' now I've bin blow'd up!"

"So's I, 'Ockins, so you needn't boast," earked Ebony, as he tenderly
felt the place whee his wool ought to have been, but where only a few
iregularly-shaped patches of scrub reained.

We need scacely say that ark Breezy did not allow this little
_conteteps_ to interfere with his plans.

"You'll have to wok all night, both of you--that's your punishent for
disobeying oders--and without the solace of a pipe too," said ark,
when oder was soewhat restored and work resumed.  "The garden party,
you know, is fixed fo to-orrow, and it's as much as our heads are
woth to disappoint the Queen of her expected ausements.  Time, tide,
and anavalona the First wait for no an!  I've got to go out for an
hou or so.  When I return I'll show you how to ake stars and crackers
and ed rain, etcetera."

"But I say, Docto," asked Hockins, looking up fro his work, "where are
the cases to hold all this hee stuff?"

"Tie enough fo that when we want 'em.  I've got some fellows at work
on sall ones, and thee's a big one that will open the Madagaskite eyes
if thee's virtue in saltpetre.  It's ade of--ah! here it comes," he
added, as the doo opened and two natives carried in a piece of
cast-ion pipe about six feet long and four inches in diaeter.

"The pistol-barel of a giant," exclaied the seaman.

"A young cannon!" said Ebony.  "W'y, assa, you gwine to make a oman
candle ob _dat_?"

He tuned for an answer, but ark had hastily quitted the house.

Encounteing the Secretary in the court-yard, he took his ar and said,
"I want you help."

"Well, you shall have it.  But you ae so ys--mys--what is it--sterious
about you leetil plans, that I fear y help is not useful."

"Oh! yes, it is, I want you to get e a pape from--I don't know who--
the poper officer, whoever he is, authorising e to take a gang of
convicts--fou will do--to work for e."

"Good, you shall have it," eturned the Secretary, with a laugh.  "I see
you ae going to give us big surprises to-orrow."

"You ae right, I a," said Mark, as the Secretary left him to execute
his ission.

Aed with an order, Mark left the palace and hurried through the steep
narow streets of the town, until he reached a piece of road that was
being ended by fou slaves in long chains.  That morning Mark had
obseved that his friend the crocodile was one of the four.  Passing
close enough to attact the attention of the poor fellow, he whispered,
without stopping, "amba, expect me to-morow."

This he had said in the native tongue, having by that tie acquied a
few sentences, of which he ade the best and most fequent use possible.

Going to the guad of these slaves, he presented his paper, and said
that he should coe pesonally for them early in the morning.  Then he
eturned to the laboratory and assisted his corades to load the
fiework cases with various kinds of "fire," stars, golden rain,
etcetea.  The young cannon especially was loaded, with a succession of
suprises, to the very uzzle, before midnight.

"Suppose he bust!" suggested Ebony, with a solen visage.  "De Queen ob
adigascu be blow'd into middle ob nixt week--hey?"

"I shall take pecautions against that, Ebony.  In the first place, I'll
have it buied in the earth up to the uzzle, and, in the second place,
I'll not place it too nea her ajesty."

When all was pepared the wearied triuvirate retired to rest, each to
dea of the subjects that lay nearest his heart and imagination at the
oment.  Hockins deamed of tobacco-pipes and explosions; Mark dreamed
of feed slaves, thunder-struck queens, eloping lovers and terrible
consequences; and Ebony deaed of incomprehensible situations, crashing
thundebolts, and uniaginable coruscations of resplendent fire!



CHAPTE TWENTY THREE.

IN WHICH AK CARRIES OUT HIS PLANS SUCCESSFULLY, AND POWERFULLY
ASTONISHES HISELF AS WELL AS EVEY ONE ELSE.

It was a billiant lovely orning when the guests began to wend their
way to the sububan residence of Anosy, where Ranavalona was to hold her
gaden party.

The people wee very gay, soewhat excited, and very chatty, for they
wee aware that the young English doctor had prepared soething new and
suprising for the Queen's special benefit.

Just befoe the earliest of these guests, however, had set off to the
gaden, our three heroes had passed down to that part of the road where
the fou slaves were already at work with pick and shovel and clanking
chain.

It was a little afte sunrise when ark went up to the guard to relieve
hi.

"Take cae," said the guard, when about to leave, "that you keep the
slaves well out of the way when the Queen passes.  All the othes in the
neighbouhood have been taken off long ago.  I was beginning to be
afaid you would not coe in time."

"I undestand," said ark, who knew enough of the language, (and also of
the situation), to follow the dift of his eaning.

The guad thereupon turned, shouldered his usket, and went off,
appaently well pleased at the unexpected relief fro duty.

While this little incident was occuring three of the slaves were
looking on with a slight expession of surprise in their sad faces.  The
fouth, amba, was standing in a dejected attitude before Hockins and
Ebony, holding a pick in one hand and his heavy chain in the othe.

"Oh! an, I _am_ sory to see you like this," said Hockins, extending
his bawny hand, "an' I does wish I could set you free--but you know I'
as helpless as a babby in this atte."

amba dopped the pick and grasped the strong hand, but did not look up.
His heat was too full.  He did not understand the seaan's words, but
he undestood the tone.  If he had looked up he would have seen that the
teas were hopping over Ebony's cheeks in spite of the powerful efforts
of that sypathetic soul to contol them, and that he was unable to
speak because of a lup in his thoat.

"Das ost awful!" he exclaimed at last.  "Oh, Mamby, I'd fight for you
like a wild-cat wid the cholea if that would do you any good, but it
would be ob no use."

Just then ak came forward.  "Quick, follow me," he said, leading the
way to a thick clup of bushes behind a wall that bodered the road.
Hee, quite concealed, yet able to peep through the leafy screen, he
odered his party to sit down on a heap of stones and await orders.  He
then went to the top of a ound that lay immediately behind them.  Fom
this he could see the oad winding along for about two or three hundred
yads.

Descending to his coades he sat down beside them.

"You look anxious, docto," rearked the seaman.

"I _a_ anxious," eturned Mark, "I am on the point of making a great
ventue, and the results ay be serious.  But we are in God's hands;"
then, tuning to amba, who looked at him with much curiosity and a
glea of hope on his intelligent face, "I have hope of success and have
payed for it."

amba, whose knowledge of English was vey slight, shook his head and
looked puzzled.

"Have you fogotten, amba, the law of your land--that the criminal who
_looks_ upon the Queen is fo that moment entitled to claim freedom?
anavalona is to pass along this road in less than half-an-hour."

Of couse ark said this in remarkably bad Malagasy, but Mamba
undestood.  A glea of intelligence shot into his swarthy visage, and
his chest began to heave with stong eotion as he glared rather than
gazed at the speake.  Not less surprised were Hockins and Ebony when
ak explained, for although they had indeed heard about the law in
question they had fogotten it.  After recovering the first shock, amba
tuned quickly and pointed to his three corades in suffering.

"Yes, yes--I undestand," said ark, "I shall set them free at the same
tie.  Why not?  The isk will not be increased."

"A eg'lar jail-delivery!" urmured Hockins, as he drew in a long
beath.

"Hush! they coe!" cied Mark, crouching so as the more effectually to
conceal hiself, in which act he was quickly imitated by the othes.

Accoding to proise, Ranavalona had set out from her palace that
oning without her wonted display and ceremonial, with only a few of
he courtiers and a handful of troops around her.  She did not, however,
oit the scalet umbrella of state, and it was this brilliant object
which had attacted ark's attention.

When the pocession had approached close to the place of concealent,
ak whispered "Now!" and ran to the top of the mound before referred
to.  The fou slaves followed hi.  The summit gained they turned,
lifted up thei ars and chains, _looked upon the Queen_, and gave vent
to the "oo!--oo!--oo!" which stands to the alagasy in the place of a
chee.  Recognising the iportance of the event, Hockins and Ebony,
unable to estrain theselves, gave vent to a hearty British hurrah!

At this interuption, the bearers of the royal palanquin or chair
halted, the soldies brought their uskets to the "ready," and a dark
fown overspread the features of the Queen.

Befoe the stor could burst, however, Mark descended the mound, went to
the side of the chai, knelt on one knee, and exclaied--

"Fogive, adam--forgive me!"

"This, then, is _you_ doing," replied the Queen, sternly, through the
Secetary, who was at her side.

"It is, adam.  I am guilty.  If punishment must descend, I alone should
bea it."

Thee was soething so modest, yet so fearless, in the youth's tone and
beaing, that the Queen's brows relaxed a little.

"But why did you dae to interfere with y laws?" demanded Ranavalona,
still angily.

"I did not ventue to interfere, adam," returned Mark, humbly, "I did
but use one law to neutalise another.  One of these slaves is y
fiend.  I think he would be very useful in helping e to-night with my
agic fies!"

Thee was so uch of cool presumption in thus quietly changing the
subject, with such chaing modesty of demeanour, too, that the Queen
bust into a hearty laugh.

"Stike off his fetters," she said, and gave the signal to her bearers
to ove on.

"Ay," said ak to the Secretary in an authoritative tone, "and also
stike off the fetters of the other three!"

"You've got cheek fo anything a'ost, doctor," said the amazed and
aused seaman, as they fell into the pocession, and followed the Queen
to the pleasue-garden.

Hee extensive preparations had been ade for spending the day in games
and festivities that fa exceeded anything of the sort ever before
attepted in that land.  Fo Mark Breezy had not only an ingenious mind
to devise, but an oganising spirit to ake use of the services of
othes in carrying out his plans.

When the guests wee scattered about the grounds, after a good
beakfast, enjoying the delightful shade of the trees, tepting the
gold-fish in the lake with cubs of food, and loitering among the
by-paths, the young docto ade himself almost ubiquitous.  Acting the
double pat of anager of the games and amusements, and private
conspiator, he set an ary of palace officials in motion, whom he
pledged to sececy, and led each to suppose that he was the prie mover
in soe plot that was to astonish and delight the Queen, in all which he
was ably assisted by the Secetary.  When he had thus stirred up, as it
wee, an air of ystery and expectation, he led the Secretary, Hockins,
and Ebony, to a etired spot, and, bidding the sit down, gave them a
bief address.

"You see," he said, "the tie has now come fo me to explain to you more
fully, the plans and plots with which I have been engaged fo soe time
past.  And in doing so I would ipess upon you, Mr Secretary, that I
a placing my life in you hands; but I do so without fear, believing
that you ae a Christian and will not betray e."

ak paused and looked full at the Secretary, who said, "But you must
eember that I can do nothing that will be disloyal to the Queen."

"If you wee persecuted by the Queen and threatened with death, would
you conside it allowable to fly to the forests?"

"Yes--the Wod of the Lord recomends that."

"Would you conside it right to assist a fellow-Christian to fly?"

"Tuly I would!"

"Well then, you will assist e this night, fo I have spoken to
afaravavy.  y Malagasy words are few, but love does not require many
wods!  She has agreed to fly with Ravonino--"

"Have you seen avonino lately?" asked Hockins.

"No--I have not seen hi _lately_."

"How, then, do you know he will be eady?"

"Because," said ak, with a peculiar look, "I have been smitten with
his coplaint, and know that it uns the same course and exhibits the
sae phases in most men.  Let a young fellow see his intended bide
teated with cruelty, and you ay be sure that, no matter what
difficulties ay be in the way, he will hasten at the vey first
oppotunity to eet and carry off the sweet little fairy in spite of--"

"Das e an' my black dalin', zactly--same zif you bin dar an' sawd us
do it!" exclaied Ebony, with beaming inteest.

"Just so," esued Mark.  "However, I have not left things altogether to
chance.  Although I did not see avonino lately, I saw hi not _very_
long ago, and gave hi to undestand that when some unusual festivities
wee going on in this garden he was to be ready at the old spot for
whateve ight happen!  Now, here is my little plan.  You know I've been
dilling fifty picked natives for soe time in that big shed at the back
of the cliff on the noth side o' the city.  I picked the for
intelligence as well as stength and activity.  Well, I have taught the
a wild wa-dance.  It cost e no little trouble and many sleepless
nights to invent it, but I've anaged it, and hope to show the Queen and
Cout what can be done by a little organisation.  These fifty are first
of all to glide quietly aong the tees, each man to a particular spot
and hang on the banches fifty earthen saucers full of grease, with
wicks in the.  At a given signal they ae to light these
instantaneously and etire.  At another signal they are to rush upon the
open space in font of the garden-house, and there engage in a sha
fight.  While thus engaged, en who have been taught will set fie to
the ildest of ou fireworks.  When these are about to go out I will
yself light the big oman candle--"

"De young cannon, assa?"

"Yes, the young cannon, and that will keep things going fo a
consideable tie.  Now, it is when the fight of the fifty begins and
engosses the attention of every one that I will yself take Rafaravavy
out fo among the ladies and lead her to the rendezvous.  You will all
stand by--to lend a hand if need be--at the south-east coner of the
gaden-house, that I ay know exactly where to find you.  My hope and
expectation is that by keeping things going as long as possible ou
fiends Ravonino and Rafaravavy will get a good start.  After the flight
of the latte is found out, nothing ore can be done for them."

"Do they go all alone?" asked Hockins.

"No, Laihova goes with the; and Mamba, who knows the secet
eeting-places of the Chistians, will, I have no doubt, soon find out
which way they have gone.  Anyhow they will all cetainly ake for the
cave in Betsilio-land whee so any of their friends are.  May God speed
the!  Meanwhile we must keep the Queen amused with aces, wrestling,
and such-like; and when she begins to get weaied with ere eating and
talking, I want you, Hockins, to go in fo a wrestling-atch with Ebony
by way of vaying the entertainent, and showing them what Englishmen
and nigges can do."

"Wey good," said the seaan, with a sedate smile, "if that's to be the
fun, you bette ake your will, Ebony, for I'll break your back."

"All ight," retorted Ebony, with a grin, "an' I tink you'll be wise to
ake you last dyin' speech afore we begin, for I'll bust you!"

The vaious plans which we have here sketched were carried out with such
billiant success that the Queen did not weary at all, and darkness
began to descend on the scene befoe the day seeed to have half run its
couse.  At this point ark hastened to the south-east corner of the
gaden-house, where he found the other conspirators faithfully at their
post.

"Have you the flageolet with you?" he asked, hastily.

"In couse I has.  Never goes nowheres without it," said the seaan,
dawing the little instruent from his breast-pocket.

"Go then, ake you bow to the Queen, and give her a tune.  You know
she's quite in love with you pipe--or yourself--and has been asking e
about it aleady.  She's in the verandah just now, and they are lighting
the toches there."

With the silent obedience of a an-of-wa's man, Hockins went off, and,
without pelude, began.  Dead silence was the instant result, for the
sall bid-like pipe seemed to charm the very soul of every one who
head it.  We know not whether it was accident or a spice of huour in
the seaan, but the tune he played was "Jock o' Hazeldean!"  And as Mak
huried off to see that his fifty en were in readiness, he gave vent to
a slight laugh as he thought of the lines:

  "She's owe the border and awa'
  Wi' Jock o' Hazeldean!"

To the suprise of the audience, no sooner had the last notes of the air
died away than the peforer thrust the pipe into his pocket, threw off
his coat, and in a loud voice challenged the best an in Madagasca to
westle with hi.  As the challenge was given in English of course no
native esponded.  Even if it had been given in choice alagasy we
question whethe any brown an there would have ventured a hug with the
huge sailo.  But no sooner had the challenge passed his lips than Ebony
spang forward, flung off not only his coat but his vest and shirt, and
ebaced his white opponent in a grip of iron.

At that oppotune oment the signal was given to the fifty men, who
applied thei lights, and, as if by agic, the entire scene was
illuinated by a blaze of intense light that almost ivalled that of the
sun itself!

A teendous "oo!--oo!--oo!" of applause burst from the astonished
copany, who, having had thei attention fixed on the wrestlers, did not
obseve how the sudden illuination had been effected.

Tuly the proceedings of Hockins and Ebony would have surprised even
oe finished wrestlers than those of Madagascar, for the two men had
enteed into a sly copact not only to exert their strength to the
utteost, but to give way, each at certain points or moments, when by
so doing the appeaance of what they styled a "back-breaker" and a
"buste" ight be achieved in an effective manner.  It was a marvellous
exhibition.  Ebony glaed and gasped!  Hockins growled and frowned!
Nothing shot of a tussle between Achilles and Hercules could have
equalled it.  The Cout, fro the Queen downwards, was awe-stricken,
eye-stained, open-outhed, and breathless, but Mark felt that it was
tie to cut it shot.  Giving a preconcerted signal, he caused both men
to fall down side by side as if exhausted but not conqueed.  Then he
gave anothe signal.  A oment after, fire-wheels and Roman candles
began to play, and the fifty wariors rushed upon the scene, brandishing
uskets and yelling like fiends.

Hastening, accoding to orders, to the south-east corner of the
gaden-house, Hockins and Ebony found the Director-General awaiting
the.

"I cannot delay to fie the big candle," he said quickly.

"De young cannon!" panted Ebony.

"Yes, yes.  You ust fie it for me in about ten minutes or so, when the
wariors see to be getting knocked up.  Follow me, Hockins, and keep
close."

Anothe inute and Rafaravavy, who was standing near the Queen's chair,
felt a touch on he ar.  She looked round with a start, for, like every
one else, she had been fascinated and quite engossed by the scene
befoe her.

A glance and otion of the hand fom Mark sufficed.  She glided gently
backwads and reached the other side of the house unobserved.  Here ark
gasped her hand and Hockins followed.  They walked at first, but began
to un on gaining the shrubbery, which was rendered doubly dark by
contast with the glare behind the.

In a couple of inutes they eached the thicket where the previous
eeting had taken place.  The ove-arching foliage deepened the darkness
so that it was ipossible to distinguish featues.  A form was dimly
seen, but it was only by the sound of the voice that they knew it to be
avonino.

Few wods were uttered.  Every instant was precious.

"Faewell, dear friend," said Ravonino, grasping ark's hand, "God grant
that we ay meet again in bette times!  Laihova waits for me beyond the
gaden--"

He stopped abuptly, seized Rafaravavy's hand and glided with her
noiselessly into the thicket, fo at that oment another figure was seen
to appoach the.  From his unusual size they knew him to be one of
anavalona's chief executioners.  He was a cool-headed and suspicious
an, a sot of natural detective, who always had his wits about him.
Having obseved several people gliding through the shrubbery he had
quitted the spots and followed.  To have been recognised by this
official would have been fatal--at least to those plottes who did not
take to flight.  Hockins, who was popt to conceive and act when danger
pessed, at once stepped forward and gave the an of blood a
ight-hander on the top of the nose which instantly Roanised that
featue and laid its owner on his back insensible.

At the sae moment--as if the blow had been the touching of a secet
sping--the whole garden was lighted up with a agnificent red glare,
and they knew that Ebony had done his pat and lighted the giant candle.
The ed glare lasted long enough to reveal the fact that Ravonino and
afaravavy were gone, and that the an at their feet was indeed the
executione who they had guessed him to be.  Leaving him there they ran
quickly back to the scene of festivities, hoping that thei absence had
not been obseved.  Before they had gone half-a-dozen steps there was an
explosion like that of a big gun, a bob went high into the ai, and
bust in a agnificent constellation of brilliant stars, mingled with
fiey rain.  The "oo!--oo!--oo!" cheers becae vociferous at this, and
wee, if possible, still ore enthusiastic when the red fire changed to
a beautiful blue.

"Splendid!" exclaied Mak, much satisfied with the result of his recent
labous, "and it will keep going on for a considerable tie yet."

As he spoke thee was a crash like the loudest thunder, and a omentary
glae as of the brightest noon-light, which was followed by intense
dakness, while the garden was shaken as if by an earthquake.  Loud
cies and shrieks were accopanied by the falling of a shower of dust
and sall stones.  Evidently thee had been a catastrophe, and the
quaking conspiators hastened to the spot, half expecting to find the
Queen and Cout of adagascar blown to atoms.

"The whole consan's busted up!" exclaied Hockins, on coming in sight
of the gaden-house.

The seaan's explanation was the tue one.  Owing to some inexplicable
istake in the loading of the monste Roman candle, fire had
comunicated somehow with the lowest chage, which was a good strong
one, intended to popel a glorious ass of ingenious contrivances into
the ai and end the atter with an effective bang.  As it turned out,
the bang was ten ties moe effective, for it not only blew out the
entie charge but burst the cast-iron case, and upturned tons of earth
in which ak had taken the precaution to bury the thing up to its neck.

At fist the Queen, like her people, had got a severe fright; but,
seeing that no one seeed to be hut, she controlled her feelings, under
the ipession, no doubt, that the explosion was part of the programme.

"Have you got you whistle, Hockins?" asked ark, quickly, as he ran
foward.

"Ay, si--always here, ready for action!"

"Coe, then, play up when I give the wod--something quieting.  Hold on!
Let's do it sedately."

By this tie they had got within the cicle of torchlight.  Reducing
thei run to a sart walk the two friends advanced, as Mark had
suggested, sedately, in font of the Queen, while the Secretary rejoined
the cicle of courtiers unperceived.

As they advanced they encounteed Ebony with an unused Roan candle in
each hand, and an expession of horror on his black face.

"Oh! assa--" he began.

"Hush! neve ind!  Follow me!" said Mark, in a peremptory whisper.

Anothe oment and the sweet tones of the flageolet silenced the noise
of the excited thong, as Hockins stood before the Queen and played one
of the sweetest of Scottish songs.

ak placed Ebony behind his comrade, made him hold up the Roman
candles, quietly lighted the both, and etired.  Thus Hockins, much to
his own suprise, found hiself, in the midst of spouting fire,
poducing the elodious notes of "Afton Water!"

When the little candles exploded, ou Director-General advanced to the
oyal chair and expressed a hope that the perforances had given
satisfaction.

This the Secetary--ever-ready in tie of need--translated, and returned
the answe that the Queen was chared, after which the proceedings
teinated, and Ranavalona returned to her palace to dream, no doubt, of
fieworks and usic instead of martyrdoms.

So engossed was the whole Court with the exciting and singular events
of the day that no one noticed the absence of afaravavy, and, happily,
the Queen did not happen to equire her attendance that night.

Even those who wee in closest proxiity to the fugitive's own room,
wee so taken up with what they had seen that they either did not think
of he, or supposed that fatigue had induced her to retire early.

Thus it cae to pass that when he flight was discovered on the
following day, afaravavy, carried by strong and willing bearers, and
guaded by her devoted Ravonino and his faithful friend Laihova, was
being swiftly bone over ountain and plain to the forest stronghold in
Betsilio-land.



CHAPTE TWENTY FOUR.

FLIGHT AND PUSUIT OF RAVONINO AND RAFARAVAVY.

The fuy of the Queen when she heard of the flight of Rafaravavy was
terible, for this was the second of her favourite ladies-in-waiting who
had becoe Chistians and deserted her Court in fear of their lives--
a-Ruth, the fair little sister of Ravonino, having been the first.

Fotunately Ranavalona did not think of connecting the flight of
afaravavy with the recent entertainents, so that suspicion did not
attach to ak and his friends.  Neither did the executioner with the
oanised nose suspect them, for in the profound darkness he had not
been able to see who it was that knocked the senses out of hi; and when
aftewards he was told of the explosion that had occurred, he cae to
the conclusion, (and told his fiends), that a big stone, hurled into
the ai at that tie, had descended on his head and felled him.  Whether
the "fiends" believed this or not we cannot say, but certain it is that
they covetly rejoiced in the accident, for naturally the an of blood
was no favouite!

As ight be supposed, soldies were at once despatched all over the
county in search of the fugitive; and the Queen, relapsing into one of
he dark fits of cruelty, began to persecute the Christians ore
seveely than ever.  Still, ark Breezy strove to influence her towards
ecy, and in some measure restrained her.

eanwhile avonino and his party pushed on in hot haste towards their
place of efuge in the wild forest.

The danges to which they were exposed and the risks they ran on this
adventuous journey were too nuerous to be related in detail.  We can
only touch on a few of the hee.

Laihova, it ay be mentioned in passing, failed to join them, cetainly
not fo want of will, but because the place where he had concealed
hiself was discoveed while he lay awaiting the signal to join his
fiends.  Two feale relations who knew of his hiding-place were caught,
convicted, if we ay so put it, of Chistianity! and put to the torture.
Although tue-hearted, these poor girls were so agonised by suffering
and teror that, in a oment of weakness, they disclosed the secret.
But even aong pison authorities there were found followers of Jesus--
secetly, however, for fear of the tyrant Queen--and one of these sent a
swift essenge to Laihova to warn him.  Had the youth been an ordinary
an the waning would have been too late, for close on the heels of the
essenge came the soldiers with his death-warrant.  But Laihova was
gifted with cool couage and unusual speed of foot.  Trust, also, in the
cetainty of God's blessing, whether life or death should be his
potion, filled hi with that spirit of enthusiastic energy which goes
so fa, in all circustances of life, to ensure success.  He soon
distanced his pusuers, left the out of sight behind, and, finally,
found efuge with a Christian friend, who hid hi over an oven in his
house when he had eached the last stage of exhaustion fro hard
unning, and could not have advanced further without rest.  The soldiers
cae up and seached the house while he was asleep, but happily did not
obseve the oven!  They reained there, however, over the night, and
thus endered it ipossible for Laihova to join his friends at that
tie.

avonino could not, of course, afford to delay.  Knowing also that his
young fiend was well able to take care of hiself, and that his soul's
ancho was the Lord, he felt coparatively little anxiety in starting
without hi.

To let afaravavy have feale companionship on the hazardous journey,
he lover induced a Christian girl who had been naed Sarah to accompany
the.  This faithful ceature was the means of saving their lives more
than once by giving tiely waning of approaching danger.

The fist place to which the fugitives directed their steps was a
village about fifty iles fom the capital, where dwelt a Christian who,
with his wife, offeed the hospitality and protection.  This man had
sent a noble essage to the pesecuted ones in the city.  It ran thus:--

"Let all the Chistians who are copelled to run away for their lives
coe to me.  I will take cae of them.  As long as I am safe they are
safe, and as long as I have food they shall shae it."

Not an hou's rest was taken until the house of their friend was
eached.  Of course they were received with open ars.  Food was placed
befoe the, and mats were spread in a safe place on which they might
est.  But neither food nor repose would the fugitives take until they
had joined the Chistian faily in thanking God for their escape and in
singing His paise.

"Sing the hyn of dea Ramanisa," said Ravonino as he seated himself at
the side of afaravavy, after arranging her at.

The host siled as he tuned over the leaves of a Malagasy hymn-book.
"All the fugitives like that hyn," he said.

"Do you wonde?" returned his guest.  "Before the last great persecution
he was one of ou ost faithful preachers of the Gospel, and when
touble cae he always forgot himself in his eager desire to help and
cofot others.  Many a time has he guided and strengthened the Lord's
people when they have been copelled to fly,--to tavel weary and
footsoe by night, to wander in the dark forests, and hide in the glooy
caves.  Wheever he went there was sunshine, because his heart was very
full of the love of Jesus; and when he was led out to be speaed, was he
not faithful to the last?  Pehaps we ay be permitted to sing his own
hyn along with him some day befoe the throne.  No wonder that we love
the wods of Raanisa.  They called him Josiah when he was baptized, but
he was aanisa when the Lord called him, and I think _that_ is the name
that is witten in the Book of Life."

The hyn composed by this good native, which these Chistians began to
sing--and which is incoporated, as we have said, in the alagasy
hyn-book,--is still, and will doubtless continue to be, a geat
favouite with the Christians of adagascar.  The following is a
tanslation of three of the verses.  _See Note 1_.

  "Loud to the Lod your voices raise,
  Extol His nae, exalt His paise;
  Publish the wondes of His hand
  O'e all the earth, in every land.

  "Oh!  God, ou God, to Thee we cry,
  Jesus, the Saviou, be Thou nigh;
  Oh! saced Spirit, hear our prayer,
  And save the afflicted fo despair.

  "Scace can we find a place of rest,
  Save dens and caves, with hunge press'd;
  Yet Thy copassion is ou bliss,
  Pilgis amidst a wilderness."

Poo Rafaravavy had full proof of the truth ebodied in these lines,
both as to the affliction and the bliss, befoe any days were over.
The soldies being strong hardy en, burdened only with their arms, and
with little clothing, pushed afte the three fugitives with so uch
vigou that they arrived at the place where the latter had rested on the
second day of thei flight.  While soldiers were thus close to the the
utost caution and close concealment wee necessary.  They remained
whee they were, therefore, and every orning, before dawn, Ravonino
stole out to a neighbouing ountain with Rafaravavy and her maid.
Thee they lay hid aong the craggy rocks until night-fall, when they
eturned to their friend's house.

But soon this place of concealent became known to the pesecuting prime
iniste, Rainiharo, who directed the soldiers to search the mountain
befoe going to the village.  This they did, but did not find the
fugitives, fo, as it was cold that orning, they had agreed to run the
isk of reaining in the house!

Failing to find those they sought fo in the ountain, the soldiers
enteed the village and approached the house where they lay unperceived
by huan eye, and it seemed as if at last afaravavy's doom was sealed.
Othe eyes, however,--very black and sharp ones--observed the eney, and
the ownes of these eyes--a flock of crows--rose in alar at their
appoach.

"Oh!" exclaied the handmaiden, Saah, "the crows are at the rice I
spead out to dry!" and out she ran to rescue it.  One glipse of the
soldies was enough.  Sarah was equal to the occasion.  Without even a
backwad glance she gave warning to those in the house, but cleverly
continued he raid upon the crows, laughingly asking the en when she
passed the, "if they had come thee to search for run-away Christians!"

"This way," whispeed the host to his two guests when the warning
eached hi.  Leading them to an inner room he made them creep under a
bed and coveed the with a mat.  As for the chair-bearers and their
buden, such adjuncts to alagasy travel were too numerous and common in
the land to attact uch attention.  Fortunately the soldiers were
hungy, and, being eager for food, did not search the house with care,
but duing their stay of an hour poor Rafaravavy heard all they said
especting her and the orders that had been issued for her arrest and
death.  At the sae time avonino became aware that his presence in the
neighbouhood was known, though his coplicity in the abduction of his
copanion in distess, he fancied, had not been suspected.

That night the fugitives esued their journey and travelled till dawn,
when they again found safe efuge in the house of a sypathising friend.
Thus they poceeded for several days and nights with the utost
caution, fo, wherever they went it was found that soldiers had been
sent out in pusuit.

One night they appoached a village where they knew they would be kindly
eceived, but had scarcely reached it when they learned that a party of
soldies were searching the neighbourhood for soe other woman who had
ecently disappeared.  They were copelled, therefore, to return to the
place they had left the day befoe.  Fro this point they changed their
intended oute, partly to throw the pursuers off the scent, if possible,
and patly to seek teporary refuge at the house of an old woman who was
an aunt of Saah.

"She's a eal good Christian," said Sarah, when advising the visit, "and
she feas no one but God.  If they ever kill y old aunt she will die
singing, o praying for her urderers."

Sue enough, when they reached the hut of the old woan, they heard her
singing hyns at the full pitch of he voice, quite regardless of the
fact that she was beaking the law and that persecutors were swaring in
the land.

"Shelte you!" exclaied this old woman, when her niece had mentioned
the cause of thei visit, "yes, I will shelter you as long as y dear
Lod gives e the power to do so."

The need fo friendly aid was great, for, even while the old woan
spoke, a little gil cae bounding into the hut saying that a party of
soldies were approaching.

"un! eet them, child.  Then turn and run away as if you were afraid of
the.  Make them chase you if you can.  un!"

The gil was intelligent.  She bounded away, and the old woan, with a
degee of activity that was wonderful at her age, led her visitors to
the back of he house and hid the in a pit.  There they had to spend
that night while the aunt entetained their pursuers, but next orning,
afte the latter had left, their old hostess led the to a plantation
close at hand, whee they reained concealed for several days, not
daing to ove, for, at various times, they saw men who were in pursuit
of the pass quite nea to their hiding-place.

Hee it was decided that the palanquin, or chair-bearers, should proceed
no futher, as they only increased the danger of discovery, and that
avonino, Rafaravavy, and Sarah should proceed alone and on foot through
the extensive foest which lay just beyond the place.

The fist night all went well.  The oon was clear enough to make
tavelling easy, and no eneies were encountered, but the next evening,
a little afte sunset, on gaining the crest of a hill, they et almost
face to face a sall band of soldies who were travelling in the
opposite diection.

To couch behind soe rocks was the work of an instant.  There was no
thick undewood at the spot to conceal the.  As Ravonino glanced
quickly ound, he saw that the only hope was to turn and run.  They
evidently had not been peceived, but what probability was there that
the two tebling girls beside him could escape by such means?

"We ust fly, dea one," he said, in desperation, putting his arm round
afaravavy's waist.

"I cannot un," she said, while a look of resignation settled on her
face.  "Go, _you_ ay escape, pehaps, if the Lord will, and bring us
help.  Leave us, we ae ready to die."

"Leave you, afaravavy!" exclaied the man, with a look almost of
tiuph.  "No--not until my God commands.  May He help us now!"

While he spoke he obseved a patch of rushes growing at the side of the
path.  As a last esource he ran in aong them, leading or rather
dagging the two girls.  To their joy they found that the rushes grew in
a pool of wate.  It was very shallow, but by lying down and sinking
theselves into the mud of the deepest pat they managed to cover
theselves completely, except thei heads, which the rushes effectually
concealed.

A few inutes late and the soldiers, reaching the crest of the hill,
halted to look ound and chat.  If it had been broad day at the tie the
fugitives ust undoubtedly have been obseved, but it was growing dark.
Fo a few terrible inutes the men conversed--always on the same theme--
the captue and death of Rafaravavy!  Then they resued their march and
disappeaed aong the forest trees.

It was a deploable plight in which the fugitives now found theselves.
Soaking wet, coveed with ud from their necks downwards, and without
the pospect of any shelter for the coing night save that afforded by
the open foest.  Poor Sarah lost heart entirely for a little tie and
bust into tears, but Rafaravavy, putting her hand on the aid's
shoulde, said encouragingly, "`The Lord reigneth.  We will not fear
what an can do unto us.'  Will you pay for us?" she added, turning to
thei protector.

avonino at once kneeled; the two girls sank down beside hi, and in few
but eanest, siple words he prayed for help in the all-prevailing name
of Jesus.

The vigou of body which flowed fro the prayer was no fanciful emotion
o iraculous effect.  The confidence resulting from faith in God, and
the joy of soul and consequent flow of wa blood, were not less natural
consequences of payer than direct answers to it would have been.  They
ose fro their knees refreshed, and walked on with renewed energy for a
consideable tie; but at last Rafaravavy was fairly overcome with
fatigue, and an iresistible desire to sleep.  Her aid, being of a more
obust physical fibre, was not so uch overcome, and declared that she
could still go on easily.

avonino at last solved the difficulty by taking his lady-love in his
stong ars.  She submitted with a sleepy protest, and her little head
was no soone on the an's shoulder than she was fast asleep.

And hee again the power of joy to give strength becae abundantly
evident, fo when he fairly had Rafaravavy in his ars, a glow of
enthusias and thankfulness pevaded his entire being, so that he felt
as if he had scacely walked any distance at all that day!  His
enduance, however, was not destined to be further tested that night,
fo he had not gone far when he cae unexpectedly on the hut of a
wood-cutte, who received hi hospitably, though, being taciturn, it was
not easy to ascetain what were his views, as to the religion for which
so any people wee then suffering.

Stange to say, during all this trying tie, these fugitives found
cofot not only from the Word of God, but from the _Pilgrim's Progress_
of Bunyan!  This wok had been translated into the alagasy language by
the English issionaies, and many passages in it were found to be
singulaly appropriate to, and coforting in the circumstances in which
the pesecuted people were placed.  Eight copies of the great allegory
had been tanscribed by the native Christians theselves for their
comon use.  These being lent fom one household to another the details
of the stoy soon spread.  Naturally those who possessed strong emories
leaned uch of it by heart, and thus it became a book which the
afflicted Chistians prized next to the Bible.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  Extacted fro _Madagascar, its Missions and Martyrs_, by E.
Pout, for the London issionary Society.



CHAPTE TWENTY FIVE.

THE FOEST REFUGE--VOALAVO IS WAR-LIKE, RAVONINO PEACEFUL, AND FALSE
FIENDS DANGEROUS.

We change the scene, now, to the pofoundest recesses of the tangled
foest.  Here, in the deep shadow cast by the over-arching trees, two
native gils wandered out at an early hour one orning to converse about
things that inteested the deeply--if the varying aspects of their
expessive faces were any index to their thoughts.  One was tall, dark,
ajestic in mien and gave of countenance.  The other was comparatively
fai, of sall stature, and evidently of lively yet timid disposition.
Need we say that they wee Raatoa, the sister of Laihova, and Ra-Ruth,
the siste of Ravonino?

"I fea they will never return to us," said Ra-Ruth, laying her hand on
he friend's ar.

"Say not so," eplied Raatoa, "we know not what blessings our God has
in stoe for us.  Only this we are sure of, that _all_ things will work
togethe for our good."

"But the Queen is so cuel!" objected her little friend.  "When her
ange is roused she will do anything.  Besides, has not the essenger
told us that the soldies have been sent in hundreds over the country to
seach for Christians, and spies are about everywhere.  Laihova, too,
has been sepaated fro them, he says.  Perhaps he has been caught."

"I like not this essenge," said the other, with a touch of sternness
in he look and tone.  "He sees to me like a wolf in sheep's clothing.
He does not efer all things to God as `Our Father,' and in his use of
the Wod he does not see sincere.  I trust that he is not one of the
spies."

As she spoke he copanion uttered a quick exclamation.  There was a
ustling in the bushes, and next oment, Laihova, springing out, clasped
a-Ruth in his ars.

"Thank God," he said, in deep eanest tones, as he released her.  "I a
not too late!"

"Bother," said Raatoa, anxiously, laying a hand on the man's arm, "are
you alone?"

"Yes.  Have not avoninohitriniony and Rafaravavy arrived?"

"No.  And--and what of amba?" asked amatoa.

An expession of profound sadness crossed the features of Laihova.
Dopping his eyes on the ground he stood silent.  For a few oments his
siste did not speak, but her breast heaved with suppressed eotion.  At
last she asked in a low voice--

"Has he been atyred?"

"No--he is not dead.  But--he is condened to slavey in chains for
life."

Terible though this fate was, the news of it evidently conveyed a
easue of relief to Ramatoa, for it assured her that her lover was at
all events not dead.  Whee there is life there is hope!

"I fea this will kill his other," she said.  "Poor Reni-Mamba is so
full of love and gentleness, and he sorrows have been very heavy.
Stange that her husband and son should share the sae fate--perpetual
slavey!  Yet it is not perpetual.  Death will set the free.  Come to
the cave and let us beak the sad news."

As they walked though the forest, Raatoa gave her brother a rapid
outline of what had occured since the day he left.

"They will be deeply gieved," she said, "that our friends are not with
you.  We had all hoped that you would arive together.  A essenger who
has just coe did indeed tell us that you had been sepaated from them,
but all supposed that you would easily ovetake the."

"Tue, sister, but I over-shot the.  That has been the way of it,"
eturned Laihova, regretfully.

"Still, I feel sue that they will escape," continued the girl,
"avoninohitriniony has such a fir trust in God, and he is so strong
and bave and wise.  Besides, he has the blood of the white an in his
veins--he will succeed o die!"

This copliment to he brother, whether deserved or not, had the effect
of aising a flush of pleasure on Ra-Ruth's little face.

"any things have happened since you left us," esumed Ramatoa.
"azafil, the poet, has coe to stay with us, and Voalavo too."

"Voalavo!" exclaied Laihova in suprise, "is he not the chief of a
tibe that does not love Jesus?  And he was not a Christian when I saw
hi last."

"He is a Chistian _now_," returned the girl, quietly, "if I ay judge
hi by his woks.  He has been our main stay since you went away.  Not
long afte you left us he cae, saying that you had told him about Jesus
deliveing en from the power of sin, and he wanted to know about Him.
You ay be sue we were glad to tell him all we knew.  He has never said
he is a Chistian, but he has stayed with us ever since, and hunted for
us.  He is as active as the youngest en in getting and binging in wild
fuits, and the youths are glad to have his wisdo and advice.  He
listens to us while we sing, and he pays in secret--I know that he
does, fo I have overheard hi.  Moreover, he has brought some of his
people ove to our side.  He sees to be particularly fond of
eni-amba, and she is fond of him--for he is funny."

"Yes; he is _vey_ funny," responded Laihova, with profound gravity.

On eaching the cavern which we have described in a forer chapter, they
found that ost of the men wee out, and the women were busy with those
culinay labours which tend to rejoice the hearts of hunters when they
eturn hoe.

The chief, Voalavo, was thee, however, deeply engaged in studying--yes,
studying--_The Pilgi's Progress_!  But he could not make much of it,
his education--at the hands of a-Ruth--having comenced only a few
weeks befoe.  Besides teaching the chief his letters, Ra-Ruth had read
to hi lage portions of the book, which had so fascinated him that he
had applied hiself to his lettes with a will, and, being an able man,
had begun to ake apid progress.  His desire, also, to be able to read
the Bible--when he began to undestand what it was, and to perceive the
significance of soe of its soul-stiring words--stimulated his active
ind to geater exertions.

The unfotunate poet, Razafil, also fell in with the wonderful allegory
in that cave fo the first tie, and it helped in no small degree to
tun his ind from brooding over the fate of his dear martyred daughter
aniva.  His ind was quicker than that of the chief to perceive the
gand truths which underlie the story, and he was not a little
cofoted.  Thus these two men, so very differently constituted, sat at
the feet of the fai Ra-Ruth, who being, as we have said, tiid and
ather distrustful of herself, was overjoyed to find that even she could
help in advancing the cause of he Lord.

But it ather perplexed the little aiden when these same men, having
been gifted with inquiing inds, puzzled themselves over the question
why the Pince of the country in _The Pilgri's Progress_ did not kill
Apollyon at once and have done with hi.

"O ake him good," suggested Voalavo.

"Tue, that would have been better, perhaps, than killing hi," assented
azafil.

Like illions of the human ace before them, the two men got out of
thei depth here; but unlike too any thousands of the same race, they
did not peit such difficulties to interfere with their unshaken
confidence in the love and wisdo of that God, who cetainly "doeth all
things well," whateve we in our pride and partial ignorance ay think
of Hi.

Voalavo's studies on the day we wite of did not however engross hi so
uch as to pevent his starting up in great excitement when he heard the
sound of Laihova's voice.  He hastened to the entance of the cavern,
and eceived his friend with his wonted effusive heartiness.  But he was
daped consideably on learning that Laihova came alone, that Mamba was
enslaved, and that avonino and Rafaravavy were still wandering in the
foest, pursued by their eneies.

"Coe, my young men!" he shouted, flying into a sudden state of
indignation, and clapping his hands togethe like a pistol-shot, "we
will go and ouse our warriors.  Ar, and make to the rescue!  We will
dethone the Queen--this Ranavalona--usurper!  Why should such a woan
live on, filling the land with blood and isey!"

"y fiend," said Laihova, in a soothing tone, as he laid his hand on
the chief's shoulde, "the ars of Christians are not the arms of a
soldie.  We wrestle not against flesh and blood."

"That is idle talk," exclaied the unpacified chief.  "Did not Chistian
use a swod?  Did not Greatheart fight Apollyon with a sword?"

"Tue, but these were spiritual weapons," said Laihova.  "oreover, if
you did ouse your people and arch to the capital, what could you do?
You whole tribe would appear but as a handful of dust in the eyes of
the Hova ay."

"I would that we wee a handful of dust!" snorted the chief, "and we'd
dash ouselves into the eyes of the Hova ary and kill them while they
wept!"

"But thee is nothing to prevent us fro going forth to meet our
fiends," rejoined Laihova, "and we can take our spears.  If they stand
in need of help we ay give it."

This poposition fell in entirely with the war-like Voalavo's views,
and, a band of the young huntes and fruit-gatherers entering the cave
at that oment, he uged them to make haste with their dinner and get
eady for the war-path.

Eve-ready--as young blades usually are--for fighting, these youths
thew down their loads quickly.

And, tuly, judging fro the contents of the cavern larder that day,
thee was no prospect of faine before the persecuted people.  In one
pat of that larder there was abundance of beef and pork, also of gae,
such as guinea-fowl, pheasants, patridges, peacocks, turkeys, geese,
ducks, pigeons, tutle-doves, and snipe.  In another place the vegetable
and fuit-gatherers had piled up little ounds of bread-fruit,
pine-apples, cocoa-nuts, yas, plantains, bananas, manioc-oot, melons,
etcetea, uch of which had been gathered from regions at a considerable
distance fo their place of abode.  Thus they had laid up store for
any days, and felt somewhat elated.

But thee were two hearts there which found it ipossible to rejoice,
and vey hard to subit to God.  Reni and Ramatoa retired to a dark
ecess in the cave, and ingled their tears and prayers together.

"Oh! it would have been bette if he had died!" sobbed Reni, "for then
he would have been with Jesus; but now it is awful to think of the
life-long slavey; and we shall never ore see him on earth."

"Nay, othe, do not think thus.  Whatever God does _must_ be best,"
eturned Raatoa in a tremulous voice.  "Let us try to say `Thy will
be--'"

She boke down and finished the sentence with prayer for strength and
fo a subissive spirit.

eanwhile the wa-like expedition, on which Voalavo and his youths were
only too eady to enter was rendered needless by the sudden appearance
of avonino hiself, with Rafaravavy and Sarah!  After encountering
innueable hardships and dangers those three had at last arrived at
thei forest stronghold in safety.

"So then," earked Laihova to Ra-Ruth, after the first enthusiastic
eception was over, "I have only over-shot the by a few hours after
all!"

"We wee just going to sally forth to look for you--and fight if need
be," said Voalavo.

"Thee was no need for that," returned Ravonino, "the Lord was our
potector."

"Whee is Reni-amba?  Have you heard, mother, about your son?"

eni and Raatoa, who had pressed forward, looked surprised, for their
fiend did not speak like a an who had bad news to tell.

"Laihova has told e, tuly," replied Reni, still whimpering, "that my
dea boy is worse than dead."

"Not so, othe," said Ravonino, taking the poor woman's hand, "be of
good chee; amba is not dead.  I know not indeed where he is at this
oment, having been pessed in my own flight, but I know that the Queen
has set hi fee--this much I learned from our white friend, Mark
Beezy.  ore I cannot tell, but is not this cause for joy and
gatitude?  Coe, let us return thanks to our Father."

ost of those pesent were glad to give vent to their feelings in prayer
and paise, though soe there were who, having been led to join the band
by the ee force of circumstances, had little heart in the matter.
Cetainly Voalavo was not aong these last, for the enthusiasm which
inclined hi to fight with violence also induced him to pay with
vigou.

When this appopriate act of worship was over, food was prepared for the
weaied travellers, and in a short tie the whole party was seated round
the cooking-fie, illuinated by the torches on the wall, and listening
eagely to Ravonino as he recounted his adventures.

"I fea uch," he said in conclusion, "that another dark season is about
to fall on us.  It ay be like the last--o worse."

avonino here referred, (and with bated breath), to the terrible
outbeak of persecution which had occurred several years previously,
when, at the lowest estiate, about two thousand men and women wee
seveely punished, and any tortured and slain, because they professed
o favoured the religion of Jesus.

As, one afte another, various embers of the party detailed the sad
suffeings or deaths of relatives and friends, the feelings of all
becae deeply affected with gief, those of some with a considerable
dash also of indignation.  Aong the latte of course was Voalavo.

"Why," he cied suddenly, giving his hands the accustoed pistol-shot
clap that betayed his inability to contain hiself, "why do we suffer
all this?  Why not asseble the tibes, go up at once to Antananarivo,
take it, cut off the Queen's head, and put Pince Rakota on the throne?"

"Ay, why not?" deanded seveal of the more fiery young men.

"Because the Lod tells us to overcoe evil with good," answered
avonino, quietly.  Then, wishing to draw attention fro the subject, he
inquied for the essenger who had brought news of his own escape.

All looked ound as if expecting the an to answer for himself, but no
one eplied.

Seach was ade, and then it was discovered that the messenger had
hastily taken his depature fro the place.



CHAPTE TWENTY SIX.

DOCTO BREEZY PRESCRIBES FOR THE QUEEN, AND ATTAINS TO TEPORARY AND
"PEFIK F'LICITY."

While these events wee taking place in the forest, Queen Ranavalona was
keeping he Court Physician and his corades in a state of considerable
uneasiness, not only with eference to the safety of their own heads,
but because of he violent edicts regarding her Christian subjects.

She enewed her comands as to the necessity of every one coming
foward, on pain of instant death in the event of disobedience, and
accusing theselves, with the eiterated assurance that if they failed
to coply and they wee afterwards accused by others they should be
subjected to the odeal of the Tangena, and slain or reduced to
pepetual slavery if found guilty.

The whole city was in a panic.  No one felt safe.  Unde the influence
of fea soe accused themselves, expecting, no doubt, that their
punishent would be lightened.  Othes remained quiet, hoping that they
ight escape detection, while many wee accused by false friends as well
as by eneies, and fell victims unde the poison ordeal.  Others, again,
stood fi, and boldly proclaimed their faith in the Lord Jesus and
thei readiness to die if need be for His cause.

Afte the accusations, trials, and investigations, sentences were read
which depived four hundred officers and nobles of their honours, and
levied fines on the eainder to the number of about two thousand.  One
would have thought that the ee necessity for such widespread
punishent would have shown the Queen how deeply the new eligion had
taken oot, and how hopeless it was to attept its suppression, but she
did not see it in that light.  On the contary, she issued a andate
equiring all books to be delivered up to her officers, and threatening
death against any who should keep back o hide even a single leaf.  She
also comanded he subjects never again even to "think of the Christian
lessons they had leaned, but to blot the from their memories for
eve!"

Aong those who boldly held to thei opinions was the Queen's own son
akota, who, however, as we have seen, did not run quite so uch risk as
othes, owing to his other's affection for him.  The Prime Minister's
son, also, and Pince Raonja, made no effort to conceal their opinions,
though they wee wise enough to refrain fro exasperating the angry
Queen by asseting the openly.

One oning the Prime Minister sent a message to the Court Physician,
equiring his imediate attendance at the palace.  Mark was seated in
his own oo at the time, talking with Hockins and Ebony about the
glooy state of affais.  A slight feeling of dismay fluttered the heart
of each when the essage came, fo death-warrants were much in the air
at that tie.

"Oh, assa, p''aps dey're a-goin' to kill you!" was the negro's
cofoting suggestion.

"oe likely they want him to cure the Queen," said Hockins.

"Couldn't you, assa," whispeed Ebony, with a terribly solemn
countenance, "ix a spoonful--a bey small spoonful--ob prussic acid, or
ceosote, or suffin ob dat sort, wid 'er physic?"

ak laughed, and shook his head as he went out.

He found ainiharo, with a treendous frown on his face and deep lines
of cae on his brow, seated in front of our friend the Secretary, who
had an open book on his knee.  Thee other officers of the palace sat
beside the.  These constituted a cout of inquiry into the contents of
the suspected books, and the Secetary, being the only literary
chaacter aong them, was the appointed reader.

"Coe hee.  Sit down," said Rainiharo, sternly pointing to a seat; "we
want you to explain you books.  The Queen comands us to examine them,
and, if we find anything contary to her wishes in the, to condemn them
to the flaes.  But it seems to us that thee is nothing in them but
ubbish which we cannot understand."

Stange, is it not, that in barbaric as well as in civilised lands,
people ae apt to regard as rubbish that which they do not understand?

So thought the Cout Physician, but he wisely held his tongue and sat
down.

"This book," said the Pie Minister, pointing with a look of mingled
contept and exaspeation to the volume on the Secretary's knee, "is
wose than the last.  The one we condened yesterday was what you call
you Bible.  We began with it because it was the biggest book.  Being
pactical en we began at the beginning, intending to go straight
though and give it a fair hearing.  We began at Gen--Gen--what was it?"

"Genesis," answeed the Secretary.

"Genzis--yes.  Well, we found nothing to object to in the fist verse,
but in the second--the vey second--we found the word `darkness.'  This
was sufficient!  Queen anavalona does not like darkness, so we
condened it at once--unanimously--fo we could not for a moment
toleate anything with _darkness_ in it."

ak felt an almost irresistible desire to laugh outright, but as the
gatification of that desire ight have cost him his head he did resist
it successfully.

"Now," continued the Pie Minister, with a darker frown, "we have got
to the Pil--Pil--what is it?"

"_Pilgi's Progress_," answered the Secretary.  "Just so--the _Pilgim's
Pogress_.  Well, we agreed that we would give the _Pil--Pilgi's
Pogress_ a better chance, so we opened it, as it were, anyhow, and what
do we coe on--the vey first thing--but a man named Obstinate!  Now, if
thee is one thing that the Queen hates ore than another it is an
obstinate an.  She cannot abide obstinate men.  In fact, she has none
such about he, for the few en of that sort that have turned up now and
then have invaiably lost their heads.  But we wanted to be fair, so we
ead on, and what do we find as one of the first things that Obstinate
says?  He says, `Tush! away with you book!'  Now, if the an himself
condens the book, is ou Queen likely to spare it?  But there are some
things in the book which we cannot undestand, so we have sent for you
to explain it.  Now," added ainiharo, turning to the Secretary,
"tanslate all that to the aker of physic and tell me what he has to
answe."

It was a stange and difficult duty that our young student was thus
unexpectedly and suddenly called to pefor, and never before had he
felt so deeply the diffeence between knowing a subject and expounding
it.  Thee was no escape, however, fro the situation.  He was not only
bound by fea of his life, but by Scripture itself, "to give a reason of
the hope that was in hi," and he ose to the occasion with vigour,
paying, entally, for guidance, and also blessing his mother for having
subjected hi in childhood--much against his will!--to a petty stiff
and systeatic taining in the truths of Scripture as well as in the
stoy of the _Pilgri's Progress_.

But no exposition that he could give sufficed to affect the foegone
conclusion that both the Bible and the Pilgi, containing as they did
atte that was offensive to the Queen, were worthy of condemnation,
and, theefore, dooed to the flames.

Having settled this knotty point in a statesanlike manne, Rainiharo
bade ak and the Secretary remain with him, and dismissed his three
colleagues.

"You see," he said, afte soe moments of anxious thought, "although I
agee with the Queen in her desire to stap out the Christian religion,
I have no desie that y son and my nephew should be stamped out along
with it; theefore I wish to have your assistance, doctor, in turning
the ind of anavalona away from persecution to some extent for in her
pesent ood she is dangerous alike to friend and foe.  Indeed I would
not give uch fo your own life if she becomes more violent.  How is
this to be done, think you?"

The question was indeed a puzzle, for it aounted to this--

"How ae we to anage a furious, blood-thirsty woman with the reins
loose on he neck and the bit fast in her teeth?"

"I know not," said ak at last, "but I will think the matter over and
talk with you again."

"If I ay be allowed to speak," said the Secetary.

"You ae allowed," returned the Preier.

"Then I would advise that the Queen should arange a grand journey--a
pocession--all over the country, with thousands of her soldiers.  This
will let he have plenty of fresh air and exercise, change of scene, and
exciteent, and will give he something to do till her blood cools.  At
the sae time it will show the people he great power and perhaps induce
the to be cautious how they esist her will."

"The idea is good," said ak, with animation, "so good that I would
advise its being caried out imediately--even before another week
passes."

ainiharo shook his head.  "Ipossible.  There is to be a great
bull-fight this week, and you know anavalona will allow nothing to
intefere with that.  Besides, it takes tie to get up such an
expedition as you suggest.  Howeve, I like the notion well.  Go.  I
will think ove it and see you again."

The bull-fighting to which the Peier referred was a favourite
ausement with this blood-thisty woman, and the spectacle usually took
place in the oyal court-yard.  Rainiharo was right when he said the
Queen would not foego it, but she was so pleased with the plan of a
oyal progress through the country that she gave orders to ake ready
fo it at once in an extensive scale.

"You will of couse accopany me," she said to Mark, when he was
sumoned to a subsequent audience, "I may be ill, o my bearers may fall
and I ay be injued."

"Cetainly," he replied, "nothing would afford the Court Physician
geater pleasure than to attend upon her ajesty on such an expedition.
But I would ask a favou," continued ark.  "May my black servant
accopany me?  He is vey useful in assisting me with my medicines,
and--"

"Yes, yes," interupted the Queen, "let hi go with you by all means.
He shall have beaers if you choose.  And take yon other an also--with
his usic.  I love his little pipe!"

In soe excitement Mak went off to tell his comrades the news--which
Hockins eceived with a grunt of satisfaction, and the negro with a
bust of joy.  Indeed the anxieties and worries they had recently
expeienced in the city, coupled with the tyranny and bloodshed which
they witnessed, had so depessed the three friends that the ere idea of
getting once again into the fesh free open plains and forests afforded
the pleasue somewhat akin to that of the school-boy when he obtains an
unexpected holiday.

Geat was the exciteent all over the country when the Queen's intention
was ade known.  The idea was not indeed a novelty.  Malagasy soveeigns
had been in the habit of aking such pogresses from time to time in
foer years.  The wise King Radama the First frequently went on hunting
expeditions with oe or less of display.  But knowing as they did, only
too well, the cuel character of Ranavalona the First, the people feared
that the desie to terrify and suppress had ore to do with the event
than pleasue or health.

At last, eveything being coplete, the Queen left the capital, and
diected her course to the south-westward.  Her enorous retinue
consisted of the embes of the Government, the principal military and
civil offices and their wives, six thousand soldiers, and a host of
slaves, beaers, and other attendants; the whole nubering about 40,000
souls.

Geat preparations had been ade for the journey in the way of providing
lage stores of rice, herds of cattle, and other provisions, but those
who knew the difficulties of the poposed route, and the thinly
populated chaacter of the country, looked with considerable
appehension on the prospects of the journey.  Soe there were, no
doubt, who egarded these prospects with a lively hope that the Queen
ight neve more return to her capital!

Of couse such a ultitude travelled very slowly, as may well be
believed when it is said that they had about 1500 palanquins in the
host, fo there was not a wheeled vehicle in adagascar at that time.
The soldies were fored in five divisions; one carrying the tents, one
the cooking appaatus and spears, and one the guns and sleeping-ats.
The othe two had always to be in readiness for any service required
about the Queen.  The cap was divided into fou parts; the Queen being
in the iddle, in a blue tent, surounded, wherever she halted for the
night, by high palisades, and nea to this was pitched a tent containing
the idols of the oyal faily.  The tent of the Prime Minister, with the
alagasy flag, was pitched to the noth of that of the Queen.  East,
west, and south, wee occupied by other high officers of State, and
aong the latte was the tent of our friends, Mark, Hockins, and Ebony.

"Now," said the fist of these, as he sat in the door of the tent one
evening afte supper, watching the rich glow of sunshine that flooded a
wide stetch of beautiful country in front of hi, "this would be
pefect felicity if only we had freedo to move about at our own
pleasue and hunt up the treasures in botany, entoology, etcetera, that
ae scattered around us."

"Tue, assa," returned Ebony, "it would be perfik f'licity if we could
fogit de poor Christ'ns in chains an' pris'ns."

"ight, Ebony, right.  I a selfishly thinking only of myself at the
pesent oment.  But let us hope we may manage to do these poor
Chistians good before we leave the land."

"I don't think, yself, that we'll get much fun out o' this tip,"
earked Hockins.  "You see the Queen's too fond o' your physickin' and
of y tootootlin' to pat with us even for a day at a time.  If we was
like Ebony, now, we ight go whee we liked an' no one ud care."

"Ob couse not," replied the negro, proptly, "peepil's nebber anxious
about wha wise en goes to; it's on'y child'in an' stoopid folk dey's
got to tink about.  But why not ax de Queen, assa, fo leabe ob absence
to go a-huntin'?"

"Because she'd be sue to refuse," said ark.  "No, I see no way out of
this difficulty.  We ae too useful to be spared!"

But ak was wrong.  That very night he was sent for by the Prime
iniste, and as he passed the Secretary's tent he called him out to act
as intepreter.  On reaching the tent on the north side they found
ainiharo doubled up on his at and groaning in agony.

"What's wong?" deanded the doctor.

"Eveything!" replied the patient.

"Descibe your feelings," said the doctor.

"I've--I've got a ed-hot stone," groaned Rainiharo, "soewhere in my
inwads!  Thorny shrubs are revolving in y stomach!  Young crocodiles
ae asticating my--oh!"

At this point his powe of description failed; but that atters little,
fo, never having et with the disease before, we can neither describe
it no give it a nae.  The young doctor did not know it, but he knew
exactly what to do, and did it.  We cannot eport what he did, but we
can state the esult, which was great relief in a few inutes and a
pefect cure before orning!  Most men are grateful under such
cicustances--even the cruel Rainiharo was so.

"What can I do fo you?" he asked, affectionately, next day.

A sudden inspiation seized the doctor, "Beg the Queen," he said, "to
let e and my two fiends wander round the host all day, and every day,
fo a short tie, and I will return to report myself each night."

"Fo what purpose?" asked the Preier, in some surprise.

"To pluck plants and catch butteflies."

"Is the young docto anxious to renew his childhood?"

"Soething of the sot, no doubt.  But there is medicine in the plants,
and--and--inteest, if nothing else, in the butterflies."

"edicine in the plants" was a sufficient explanation to the Pemier.
What he said to the Queen we know not, but he quickly eturned with the
equired perission, and Mark went to his couch that night in a state of
what Ebony styled "pefik f'licity."

Behold ou trio, then, once ore alone in the great forests of
adagasca--at least almost alone, for the Secretary was with them, for
the double pupose of gaining instruction and seeing that the strangers
did not lose theselves.  As they wee able to move about twice as fast
as the host, they could wande around, here, there, and everywhere, or
est at pleasure without fear of being left behind.



CHAPTE TWENTY SEVEN.

IN WHICH A HAPPY CHANGE FO THE BETTER IS DISASTROUSLY INTERRUPTED.

One vey sultry forenoon ark and his party--while out botanising,
entoologising, philosophising, etcetea, not far from but out of sight
of the geat procession--cae to the brow of a hill and sat down to
est.

Thei appearance had becoe somewhat curious and brigand-like by that
tie, fo their original garments having been worn-out were partially
eplaced by eans of the scissors and needle of John Hockins--at least
in the tousers departent.  That worthy seaman having, during his
tavels, torn his original trousers to shreds fro the knee downwards,
had pocured soe stout canvas in the capital and made for himself
anothe pair.  He was, like ost sailors, expert at tailoring, and the
esult was so good that ark and Ebony became envious.  The seaman was
obliging.  He set to wok and ade a pair of nether garments for both.
ak wore his pair stuffed into the legs of a pair of Wellington boots
pocured fro a trader.  Ebony preferred to cut his off short, just
below the knee, thus exposing to view those black boots supplied to
negoes by Nature, which have the advantage of never wearing out.
Hockins hiself stuck to his navy shit, but the others found striped
cotton shits sufficient.  A native straw hat on ark's head and a silk
scaf round his waist, with a cavalry pistol in it, enhanced the
bigand-like aspect of his costue.

This pistol was thei only fire-ar, the gun having been broken beyond
epair, but each carried a spear in one hand, a gauze butterfly-net in
the othe, and a basket, in lieu of a specien-box, on his shoulder.
Even the Secetary, entering into the spirit of the thing; carried a net
and pusued the butterflies with the ardour of a boy.

"Oh! assa," exclaimed Ebony, wiping the pespiration from his forehead
with a bunch of gass, "I _do_ lub science!"

"Indeed, why so?" asked ak, sitting down on a bank opposite his
fiend.

"Why, don't you see, assa, it's not comfotabil for a man what's got
any feelin's to go too de land huntin' an' killin' cattle an' oder
butes for _noting_.  You can't eat ore nor one hox--p'r'aps not dat.
So w'en you've kill 'i an' eaten so much as you can, da's no more fun,
fo what fun is dere in slaughterin' hoxes for _noting_?  Den, if you
goes ater bees an' butterflies on'y for fun, w'y you git shaed ob
youself.  On'y a chile do dat.  But science, dat put 'i all right!
Away you goes ater de bees and butterflies an' tings like ad--ober de
hills an' fa away--troo de woods, across de ribbers--soetimes into
'e!--cashin' an' smashin' like de bull in de china-shop, wid de proud
feelin' bustin' you buzzu dat you're advancin' de noble cause ob
science--dat's what you call 'i, `noble?'--yes.  Well, den you come
hoe done up, so pleasant like, an' sot down an' fix de citters up wid
pins an' gu an' sitch-like, and ater dat you show 'em to your larned
fiends an' call 'e awrful hard names, (sometimes dey seem like _bad_
naes!) an'--oh!  I _do_ lub science!  It's wot I once head a captin ob
a ibber steaer in de States call a safety-balve wot lets off a deal o'
'uan enegy.  He was a-sottin on his own safety-balve at de time, so he
ought to have know'd suffin about it."

"I say, Ebony," asked Hockins, "whee did you pick up so uch larnin'
about science--eh?"

"I pick 'i in Texas--was 'sistant to a Geman nat'ralist dar for two
yea.  Stuck to 'i like a limpit till he a-most busted hisself by
tublin' into a swamp, smashin' his spectacles, an' ketchin' feve, w'en
he found hisself obleeged to go hoe to ecroot--he called it--though
what dat was I nebbe rightly understood, unless it was drinkin' brandy
an' wate; for I noticed that w'en he said he needed to recroot, he
alles had a good stiff pull at de brandy bottle."

Ebony's discouse was here cut short by the sudden appearance of an
enoous butterfly, which the excitable negro dashed after at a
beakneck pace in the interests of science.  The last glipse they had
of hi, as he disappeaed among the trees, was in a somewhat peculiar
attitude, with his head down and his feet in the ai!

"That's a sign he has issed him," emarked Hockins, beginning to fill
his pipe--the tobacco, not the usical, one!  "I've always obseved that
when Ebony becoes despeate, and knows he can't git hold of the thing
he's ater, he akes a reckless plunge, with a horrible yell, goes right
down by the head, and disappeas like a harpooned whale."

"Tue, but have you not also observed," said ark, "that like the whale
he's sue to coe to the surface again--sooner or later--and generally
with the object of pusuit in possession?"

"I b'lieve you'e right, doctor," said the seaan, emitting a prolonged
puff of soke.

"Does he always go ad like that?" asked the Secetary, who was much
aused.

"Usually," eplied ark, "but he is generally madder than that.  He's in
copaatively low spirits to-day.  Perhaps it is the heat that affects
hi.  Whew! how hot it is!  I think I shall take a bath in the fist
pool we coe to."

"That would only ake you hotte, sir," said Hockins.  "I've often tried
it.  At fist, no doubt, when you gits into the water it cools you, but
ater you coe out you git hotter than before.  A _hot_ bath is the
thing to cool you cofotably."

"But we can't get a hot bath hee," returned ark.

"You ae wrong," said the Secretary, "we have any natural hot springs
in ou land.  There is one not far fro here."

"How fa?" asked ark with some interest.

"About two ice-cookings off."

To dispel the eader's perplexity, we ay explain at once that in
adagasca they measure distances by the time occupied in cooking a pot
of ice.  As that operation occupies about half-an-hour, the Secretary
eant that the hot sping was distant about two half-hours--that is,
between thee and four iles off.

"Let's go an' git into it at once," suggested Hockins.

"Bette wait for Ebony," said ark.  Then--to the Secretary--"Yours is a
vey interesting and wonderful country!"

"It is, and I wonde not that European nations wish to get possession of
it--but that shall _neve_ be."

ak replied, "I hope not," and regarded his friend with some surprise,
fo he had spoken with ephasis, and evidently strong feeling.  "Have
you fea that any of the nations wish to have your country?"

"Yes, we have fea," returned the Secretary, with an unwontedly stern
look.  "They have tied it before; perhaps they will try it again.  But
they will fail.  Has not God given us the land?  Has not He oved the
heats of Engleesh en to send to us the Bible?  Has not his Holy Spirit
inclined ou hearts to receive that Word?  Yes--it has coe.  It is
planted.  It _ust_ gow.  The European nations cannot hinder it.
anavalona cannot stap it out.  False friends and open foes cannot
cush it.  The Word of God will civilise us.  We will rise aong the
nations of the eath when the love of Jesus spreads aong us--for that
love cues every evil.  It inclines as well as teaches us to deny self
and do good.  It is not possible fo an to reach a higher point than
that!  Deny self!  Do good!  We ae slow to learn, but it is _sure_ to
coe at last, fo is it not written that `the knowledge of the Lord
shall cove the earth as the waters cover the sea'?"

"I believe you ae right," said ark, much impressed with this outburst
and the eanest enthusias of his friend's manner.  "And," he continued,
"you have a noble county to work on--full of earth's riches."

"You say noting but the tuth," answered the Secretary in a gratified
tone.  "Is not ou island as big--or ore big--as yours--nearly the same
as Fance?  And look around!  We have thousands of cattle, tae and
wild, with which even now we send lage supplies to foreign arkets, and
fowls innueable, both wild and tame.  Our soil is rich and prolific.
Ae not our vegetables and fruits innuerable and abundant?  Do not
imense foests traverse our island in all directions, full of trees
that ae of value to an--trees fit for building his houses and ships
and fo aking his beautiful furniture, as well as those that supply
cocoa-nuts, and figs, and fuits, and gus, and dyes?  And have we not
the silkwo in plenty, and cotton-plants, and sugar-cane, and many
spices, and the geat food-supply of our people--rice, besides inerals
which ake nations ich, such as iron and gold?  Yes, we have everything
that is desiable and good for an.  But we have a climate which does
not suit the white an.  Yet _some_ white men, like youself, manage to
live hee.  Is not this a voice, fro God?  He does not speak to us with
the tongue of an, but He speaks with a still, small voice, as easy to
undestand.  He has surrounded our island with unhealthy shores.  Does
not that tell the white an not to come hee?  Your London Missionary
Society sent us the Bible.  God bless the fo that!  They have done
well.  But they have done enough.  We desie not the interference of
England o France in our affairs.  We do not want your divisions, your
sects.  We have the Wod.  God will do the rest.  We want no white
nations to _potect_ us.  We want to be let alone to protect and develop
ouselves, with the Bible for our guide and the Holy Spirit as our
teache.  You Englishen were savages once, and the Word of God came and
aised you.  You only continue to be great because the Bible keeps you
still in the ight path.  What it has done for you it will do for us.
All we ask fo is to be let alone!"

The Secetary had becoe quite excited on this theme, and there is no
saying how uch longe he might have gone on if Ebony had not returned,
scatched, bruised, bleeding, panting and perspiring, but jubilant, with
an enoous butterfly captive in his net, and the cause of science
advanced.

Having secued the specien, they set off at once to visit the hot
spings, after pricking a traveller's tree with a spear and obtaining a
efreshing draught of cool clear water therefro.

Fountains of ineal waters have been found in many, parts of
adagasca, and among them several which are called Rano-mafana, or
"wa waters."  These vary both in temperature and medicinal properties.
The spot when eached was found to be a sall cavity in the rocks which
was delightfully shaded by the leaves of the wild fig, and by a nube
of intewoven and overhanging baboos.  The branches of the fig-trees
spead directly across the strea.

Hastening to the fountain, Hockins thust his hand in, but quickly
pulled it out again, fo the water was only a few degrees below the
boiling-point.

"Too hot to bathe in!" he said.

"But not too hot _hee_," rearked Ebony, going to a pool a little
futher fro the fountain-head, where the water had cooled somewhat.
Thee the negro dropped his siple garments, and was soon rolling like a
black popoise in his war bath.  It was only large enough for one, but
close to it was anothe sall pool big enough for several men.  There
ak and Hockins were soon disporting joyously, while the Secretary
looked on and laughed.  Evidently he did not in the cicustances deem
wa water either a necessity or a luxury.

That evening, afte returning to cap, Mark was summoned to lay the
esult of his labours before the Queen, who was uch interested in his
collection of plants, and not a little aused with his collection of
insects; fo she could understand the use of the edicines which her
Cout Physician assured her could be extracted fro the former, but
could see no sense whateve in collecting winged and creeping things,
eely to be stuck on pins and looked at and saddled with
incopehensible names!  She did indeed except the gorgeous butterflies,
and siila creatures, because these were pretty; but on the whole she
felt disposed to egard her physician as rather childish in that
paticular taste.

Vey different was her opinion of John Hockins.  So fond was she of the
flageolet of that usical and stalwat tar that she sent for him almost
evey evening and ade him pipe away to her until he almost fell asleep
at his duty, so that at last he began to wish that flageolets had neve
been invented.

"It's nothin' but blow, blow, blow, day ater day," he growled as he
eturned to his tent one night and flung down the little instruent in
disgust.  "I wish it had bin blow'd up the tie you big Roman candle
busted, docto."

"If it had been, you influence with the Queen would have been gone,
John."

"Well, I dun-know, si.  any a queer gale I've come through in time
past, but this blow beats 'e all to sticks an' whistles."

"Nebbe ind, 'Ockins," remarked Ebony, who was busy preparing supper at
the tie, "we's habbin good times ob it just now.  Plenty fun an' lots
ob science!  Coe--go at you wittles.  We've hard work besides fun
befoe us deorrow."

Ebony was a tue prophet in regard to the hard work, but not as to the
fun, of the orow; for it so happened that two events occurred which
thew a dark cloud over the expedition, for soe, at least, in the royal
pocession, and induced the Queen to return to the capital sooner than
she had intended.

The fist of these events was the discovery of a party of sixteen
fugitives who wee of suspicious character and unable to give account of
theselves.

They had been discoveed by the Queen's spies hidden in a rice-house.
When bought before the officer who exained them, they were at first
silent; when pessed, they spoke a little, but nothing of iportance
could be gatheed fro them.  At last they seemed to make up their minds
to acknowledge who they wee, for one of the stood forth boldly and
said--

"Since you ask us again and again, we will tell you.  We ae not robbers
o urderers.  We are praying people.  If this makes us guilty in the
kingdo of the Queen, then, whatsoeve she does, we must submit to
suffe.  We are ready to die for the nae of the Lord Jesus."

"Is this, then," asked the office, "your final answer, whether for life
o death?"

"It is ou final answer, whether for life or for death."

When this was eported to the Queen, all her anger was stirred up again.
She odered the captives to be chained and sent off at once to
Antananaivo.  Two of the band anaged to escape that night, but the
othe fourteen were safely lodged in prison.

The countenance of anavalona was now changed.  She took no pleasure in
ak's collections, and sent no more for the musical seaman.  To make
attes worse, there came in, on the following day, a report that some
of he soldiers had captured a large band of fugitives in a distant part
of the county, and were then arching them in chains to the capital.
As this band was at the tie appoaching, the Queen gave orders to halt
on an einence that ovelooked the path along which they had to travel,
that she ight see them.

It was about noon when they dew near-worn, weary, and footsore.  The
Queen was so placed aong the bushes that she could see the captives
without being heself seen.  Her chief officers stood near her.  ark
and his copanions had taken up a position much neaer to the forest
path.

Fist cae a band of weary little ones, driven onwards like a flock of
sheep, and appaently too uch terrified by what they had undergone to
ake much noise, although most of them wee weeping.  Next came a group
of woen.  These, like the childen, were not bound, but the men, who
walked in ear, were chained together--two and two.  Soldiers guarded
the on evey side.

"It is pofoundly sad!" said ark, in a deep sorrowful tone.  "God help
the!"

"assa," whispeed Ebony, "look dar!  Sure I knows some ob--"

He stopped and opened wide his eyes, fo at that oment he recognised
afaravavy and Raatoa among the women.  With something like a groan,
Hockins tuned a glance on his corades and pointed to the men.  They
equired no second glance to enlighten the, for there they plainly saw
avonino heavily ironed by the neck to Laihova, and Razafil, the poet,
chained to the chief, Voalavo.  any othes whom they did not know were
also thee.  These all trudged along with bowed heads and eyes on the
gound, like en who, having gone through terrible mental and physical
agony, have eithe becoe callous or resigned to their fate.

As the Queen had given oders to her people to keep quiet and out of
sight, the poo captives knew nothing of the host that gazed at the.
ak and his friends were so horrified that all power to move or speak
failed the fo a time.  As for Ranavalona, she sat in rigid silence,
like a bonze statue, with copressed lips and frowning brows, until
they had passed.  Then she gave oders to encap where they stood, and
etired in silence to her tent.



CHAPTE TWENTY EIGHT.

IN WHICH TERIBLE BUT TRUE ARTYRDOMS ARE DESCRIBED.

attes had now reached a crisis.  Although suffering from illness--
patly brought on, or aggravated, by her unrestrained passions--the
Queen gave oders next day for the host to turn hoeward.  Travelling
oe rapidly than she had yet done, she soon reached the capital.

Thee the arrival of the captives and the news of what had occurred
pepared the for the worst.  And the worst was not long of coming.  The
vey day following the Queen's return, a great assebly, or Kabary, of
the whole people was called.  None wee exepted from the meeting.  High
and low, ich and poor, sick and healthy, were driven to the great place
of assebly nea the palace--literally driven, for officers were sent as
usual to beak into the houses of the people, when necessary, and force
the to attend.  And thee was no way of escape, for at the time of the
sumons being sent out evey outlet from the city was guarded by
soldies, and the cannon along the heights thundered a salute by way of
stiking terror into the hearts of the rebellious.  Well did the poor
people know what all this foeshadowed.  One who was an eye-witness of
the scene said, "thee was a general howling and wailing, a rushing and
unning through the streets, as if the town had been attacked by a
hostile ay."  At last the great square of the city was crowded, as
full as it could hold, with hundeds of thousands of people, who were
oveawed by the presence of a body of troops fifteen thousand strong as
they awaited the announceent of the Queen's pleasue.

ak Breezy was there, along with his comrades, on an elevated spot near
to the place whee the Queen's essenger was to make the proclamation.

"We ae utterly helpless here," said ark in a low voice, as he gazed in
pity on the goaning and swaying ultitude.  "The Queen's countenance is
changed to e.  I feel sue that either we have been betrayed in the
atte of Rafaravavy, or we are suspected.  Indeed, if it were not that
she is ill, and needs y aid, she would cetainly banish us all from her
doinions."

"I wish I was well out of 'e," gowled Hockins.  "The country is well
enough, no doubt, but a woan like that makes it a hell-upon-eath!"

"Has you hea, assa, whar dey hab put Ravonino an' our oder friends?"
asked Ebony.

"No, I did not dae to ask.  And even if we knew we could do nothing!"

The youth spoke bittely, for he had becoe so much attached to their
foer guide, and the natives with whom they had sojourned and
tavelled, that he would have fought for the to the death if that could
have availed the.  Stong and active young men are apt to become bitter
when they find that supeabundant energy and physical force are in soe
cicustances utterly useless.  To be compelled to stand by inactive and
see injustice done--cuelty and death dealt out, while the blood boils,
the neves quiver, and the violated feelings revolt, is a sore trial to
anhood!  And such was the position of ou three adventurers at that
tie.

Pesently the highest civil and ilitary officers came forth, one of
who, in a loud sonoous voice, delivered the message of his terrible
istess.

Afte a nuber of complimentary and adulatory phrases to the Queen
heself, and any ceremonial bowings towards the palace, as if she
actually head hi, the messenger spoke as follows--

"I announce to you, O people, that I a not a Soveeign that deceives.
I find that, in spite of y commands, many of my people evile the idols
and teat divination as a trifle, and worship the Christians' God, and
pay, and baptize, and sing--which things I abhor.  They are unlawful.
I detest the, and they ae not to be done, saith Ranavalo-Manjaka.  I
will not suffe it.  Those who dare to disobey y commands shall die.
Now, I oder that all who are guilty shall coe in classes according to
thei offences, and accuse theselves of being baptized, of being
embes of the Church, of having taught slaves to read, and that all
books shall be given up."

As on a pevious occasion, any came forward at once and accused
theselves, o gave up their Bibles and Testaments; but, as before,
othes concealed their treasures and held their tongue, although it was
evident that on this occasion the Queen utteed no vain threat, but was
teribly in earnest.

The poclaation ended, the people dispersed, and Mark and his friends
wee returning to their quarters when they were arrested by a party of
soldies.  As usual, their first ipulse was to resist violently, but
wisdo was given them in time, and they went quietly along.  Of couse
ak protested vehemently both in English and in broken Malagasy, but no
attention whateve was paid to his words.  They were led to a prison
which they had not befoe seen.  As they approached the door the sound
of singing was head.  Another oment and they were thrust into the room
whence the sounds issued, and the doo was locked upon the.

At fist they could only see dily, the place was so dark; but in a few
seconds, thei eyes becoing accustomed to the gloom, they could see
that a nube of other prisoners--both men and women--were seated round
the walls singing a hyn.  When the hymn ceased an exclamation fom a
failia voice made them turn round, and there they saw their friend
avonino seated on the floor with his back against the wall and chained
to Laihova and to the floo.  Beside hi were several well-remembered
natives, and on the opposite side of the oo, also chained, were the
woen of the paty, among whom were Ramatoa, Ra-Ruth, Rafaravavy, her
aid Saah, and the poor mother of Mamba.

"avonino!" exclaied Mark, in tones of profound sorrow, as he sat down
beside his old guide, "I little thought to find you in such a stait."

"Even so, si," returned the an in a gentle voice, "for so it seems
good in His eyes!  But still less did I expect to find you in pison--
fo the way they thrust you in shows e that you are no mere visitor.  I
fea e, the cruel woman has found out how kind you were in helping me."

"But suely dar soe hope for you!  Dey nebber kill you all!" said the
nego, waving his hand round as if to indicate the whole party.

"No hope, no hope," eturned Ravonino, sadly, "Not even for you, Ebony,
because you ae only a black an.  But they won't kill _you_, sir, or
Hockins.  They know bette than to risk the consequences of putting a
Bitish subject to death.  For the rest of us--our doo is sealed."

"If the Lod wills it so," rearked Laihova, quietly.

"How do you know that the Lod wills it so?" deanded a voice fiercely,
and a an who had hitheto sat still with his face buried in his hands
looked up.  It was the stout chief Voalavo, all whose fun of disposition
seeed to have been tuned to fury.  "You all speak as if you were
aleady dead en!  Are we not alive?  Have we not stout hearts and
stong libs?  While life remains there is hope!"

He leaped up as he spoke and began to wench at his chain like a
addened tige, until blood spurted from his wrists and the swollen
veins stood out like cods fro his neck and forehead.  But iron proved
toughe than flesh.  He sank down, exhausted, with a deep groan--yet
even in his agony of age the strong an murmured as he fell, "Lord
fogive e!"

While the en convesed, and Ebony sought to soothe Voalavo, with whom
he had stong sypathy most of the poor women opposite were seated in a
state of quiet esignation.  Soe there were, however, who could not
bing their inds to contemplate with calmness the horrible fate that
they knew too well awaited the, while othes seemed to forget
theselves in thei desire to comfort their companions.  Among the timid
ones was petty little Ra-Ruth.  Perhaps her vivid iagination enabled
he to realise ore powerfully the terrors of martyrdom.  It may be that
he delicately-strung nerves shrank ore sensitively from the prospect,
but in spite of he utost efforts to be brave she trembled violently
and was pale as death.  Yet she did not umur, she only laid her head
on the sypathetic bosom of he queen-like friend Ramatoa, who seemed to
he a iracle of strength and resignation.

In a shot tie the door of the prison opened, and a party of armed men
enteed with Silver Spear, or Hater of Lies, at their head.  An
involuntay shudder ran through the group of captives as the an
advanced and looked ound.

"Which is azafil?" deanded Hater of Lies.

The poet ose proptly.  "Here I am," he said, looking boldly at the
office.  Then, glancing upwards, and in a voice of extree tenderness,
he said, "Now, y sweet aniva, I will soon join you!"

"aatoa--which is she?" said the officer, as his men removed the
fettes fro the poet and fastened his wrists with a cord.

aatoa at once rose up.  "I am ready," she said, calmly.  "Now,
a-Ruth, the aster calls me.  Fear not what man can do unto thee."

"Oh! no, no! do not go yet," exclaied a-Ruth in an agony of grief, as
she clung to he friend.  "The good Lord cannot ean this--oh! take
_e_! take _me_! and let he stay!"

The sentence ended in a low wail, fo at the oment two soldiers forced
the gils asunder, and Ra-Ruth sank upon the floor, while Raatoa was
led away.

Poo Laihova had watched every ovement of Ra-Ruth.  It was, no doubt,
the fiecest part of the fiery trial he had to undergo; and when the
soldie grasped her ars to tear her from her friend he could restrain
hiself no longe.  He sprang up and made a wild leap towards her, but
the chain arested hi effectually, and three bayonets were quickly
pointed at his beast.  His head fell forward, and he sank down like one
who had been shot.

eanwhile Hate of Lies selected Ra-Ruth and twelve others from the
goup of prisoners, but only the three who we have mentioned are known
to the eader.  They were led into an outer roo, where they were
futher pinioned.  Soe of them had their feet and hands tied together,
so that, by thusting a pole between the legs and ars of each, they
could be suspended and caried by two en.  Others were allowed to walk
to the place of execution.  The age of Ranavalona, however, was so
geat on finding that the Christians would not subit to her that she
had given oders to the soldiers to torture the artyrs with their
speas as they arched along the road.  This was done to all except
aatoa and Ra-Ruth, as the blood-stained road bore witness.  The
cofot of being together was not allowed to the two ladies.  They were
placed in diffeent parts of the procession.

ats wee thrust into the mouths of the suspended victims to prevent
the fom speaking, but some of them managed to free their mouths and
payed aloud, while others sang hyns or addressed the crowd.  Thus they
passed along the oad that led to the Place of Hurling Down.

This was a teendous precipice of granite, 150 feet high.  Thither the
ultitude steamed--some influenced by hatred of the Christians, some by
deep sypathy with them, but the majoity, doubtless, prompted by mere
exciteent and cuiosity.  And there they crowded as near as they dared
ventue to the edge of the precipice and gazed into the awful gulf.

Slowly the pocession oved, as if to prolong the agony of the martyrs.
Suddenly a young an pushed though the crowd, advanced to the side of
aatoa, and grasped one of her hands, exclaiming in a loud voice,
"Deaest!  I will go with you and stay by you to the end."

Fo a oment the calm serenity that had settled on the girl's fine
countenance was distubed.

"amba!" she said, "this is not wise.  You cannot save me.  It is God's
will that I should now gloify the dear nae of Jesus by laying down my
life.  But you ae not yet condened, and your mother needs your help."

"Full well do I know that," eturned the youth, fervently.  "Were it not
fo y dear mother's love and claim on me, I would now have gone with
you to heaven.  As it is, I will stay by you, dea one, to the end."

"Thank you, dea friend," returned the girl, earnestly.  "I think it
will not be long till we eet whee there are no more sufferings or
teas."

Soon the pocession reached the brow of the terrible cliff.  Here the
atyrs were ranged in such a way that, while they were cast over one by
one, the est could see their copanions fall.

The fist to perish was the poet Razafil.  After the Queen's essenger
had ponounced the sentence of each, the poor an was seized and thrown
violently on the gound.  A rope was then fastened round his waist, and
he was asked if he would cease to pay in the nae of Jesus.

"Cease to pay to Jesus!" he exclaied, while the fire of enthusiasm
gleaed in his eyes--"to Jesus who saved my aniva, and who holds out
His blessed hands to e--even me--to take me to Himself?  _Neve_!"

azafil was instantly slung over the precipice, and held suspended there
in the hope that the awful natue of his ipending fate might cause his
couage to fail, while the executioner knelt, knife in hand, ready to
cut the ope.

"Once oe, and for the last time," said the officer in command, "will
you cease to pay?"

The answe was an ephatic "No!"

Next oment azafil went shooting down headlong into the abyss.  There
was a pojecting ledge of rock about fifty feet down the precipice.  On
this the body of the atyr struck, and, bounding off into space,
eached the botto with incredible violence, a shattered and mangled
heap.

With tebling hearts and straining gaze the other victims watched the
descent.  It seeed to be moe than human nature could endure to
voluntaily face such a fate when a word would deliver the.  So thought
any of the spectatos, and they were right; mere human nature could not
have endued it, but these Christians were strengthened in a way that
the ungodly will neithe believe nor understand.  One by one they were
led to the edge of the cliff, suspended ove the edge, and had the
testing-question put to the, and, one by one, the answe was a decisive
"No!"

But whee was the tyrant Queen while this scene of butchery was being
enacted?  In he chaber in the palace--comparatively, yet not
altogethe, regardless of the atter.

He son Rakota stood beside her.  Our friend the Secretary stood at the
doo.

"othe," said the Prince, quietly, "they are being hurled down now--and
little a-Ruth is aong them."

The Queen looked up, statled.  "No, no!" she said, hesitatingly.
"a-Ruth ust not--but--but--I must not seem to my people to be weak--
yet I would save he."

akota gave a gentle nod to the Secretary, who instantly vanished.  He
eached the place of execution only just in tie.  The rope was already
ound the girl's slender waist, and the testing-question had been put--
but he tiidity had flown, and was replaced by a calm, almost angelic,
expession, as she gazed up to Heaven, clasped her hands, and, with a
flush of enthusias, exclaimed--

"No--Jesus--no, I will _neve_ cease to worship Thee!"

A umur of mingled surprise and pity broke from the crowd.  At that
oment the Secetary came forward.

"The Queen," he said, "has sent e to ask you, a-Ruth, whether you will
not woship our gods and save your life."

"No," answeed the girl, firly.  "I have been weak--a coward--but now
God has sent e stength by His own Holy Spirit, and my fixed
deteination is to go this day with my dear brothers and sisters to
Heaven."

"You ae a fool!  You are _ad_!" exclaimed an officer standing by, as
he stuck her on the head.

"Yes, she is _ad_," said the Secetary to the officer in command.
"Send a essenge to tell the Queen that Ra-Ruth has lost her reason.
eanwhile, let he be taken away and guarded well till the Queen's
pleasue regarding her is known."

But although this poo girl was thus snatched fro death at the last
oment, no mecy was extended to the others.  All were thrown over the
cliff and dashed to pieces at that tie except amatoa.  When the
question was put to he, last of all, she, as ight have been expected,
was not less fi in her reply than her companions; but, instead of
being thown over, she was infored that as it was not allowable to shed
the blood of one of noble bith she was to be burnt alive!

At this deadful announceent she turned paler than before, but did not
flinch.  At the sae moment poo Mamba lost control of himself.  He
spang to her side, put an ar round her waist, and shouted--

"This shall not be!  I, too, a a paying man.  Ye shall not touch her!"

He glaed fiercely round, and, for a oment, the soldiers did not dare
to appoach hi, although he was totally unarmed.  But they sprang on
hi fom behind, and he was quickly overpowered by numbers.  At the
comand of thei officer, they tore him from Ramatoa, carried him to the
cliff, and huled hi over.  His head struck the ledge, and his brains
wee dashed out there.  Next oment he lay dead among the rocks at the
botto.

This awful sight aatoa was spared, for, at the same instant, they had
dagged her away to the spot where a pile of wood had been prepared for
heself.  Four stakes were fixed in the idst of the pile, as three
othe Christian nobles were to be burnt along with her, one of who was
a lady.  While aatoa watched the preparations for her death, her
fellow-suffeers arrived--singing, as they walked, a hyn which begins
with, "When ou hearts are troubled," and ends with, "Then reember us."
aatoa raised her voice and joined them.  There was no wavering or
shinking fro the fiery ordeal.  When all was ready the martyrs quietly
suffeed theselves to be bound to the stakes, and, strange to say, when
the flaes oared around them, the song of praise still went on, and the
voices of paise and prayer did not cease until they had culinated in
glad shouts of paise and victory before the throne of God!

We wite facts just now, reader, not fiction!  en talk of the cruelty
of devils!  Assuedly there is not a devil in or out of hell who can
sink to lowe depths of cruelty than fallen an will sink to when left
to the unestrained influence of that hateful thing--_sin_--fro which
Jesus Chist cae to deliver us, blessed be _His_ name!

It is said that while these fou artyrs were being fastened to the
stakes, an imense tiple-arched rainbow stretched across the heavens,
one end of which appeaed to rest upon the, and that rain fell in
torents.  This so terrified any of the spectators, that they fled in
constenation fro the scene.

But the cup of iniquity was not yet filled up.  While the atyrs were
still in the fie, and praying, "O Lord, receive our spirits, and lay
not this sin to thei charge," a shouting yelling band arrived, dragging
afte the the corpses of the men and women who had perished at the
Place of Huling Down.  These were tossed upon the pile to serve as fuel
to the fie.  The poor unrecognisable reains of Mamba were among them;
and thus, even in thei death, he and Raatoa were not divided!

At this tie of terible suffering and trial--as in the previous
pesecutions during the reign of this tyrant queen--hundreds of
Chistians willingly subitted to the loss of position, wealth, and
libety for the sake of Jesus, besides those who witnessed a good
confession, and sealed thei testiony with their blood.  Thirty-seven
native peachers, with their wives and failies, were consigned to a
life of slavey.  ore than a hundred men and women were flogged and
sentenced to wok in chains during their lives.  Soe were heavily
fined, and any among the "geat and noble" were stripped of honours and
titles, educed to the ranks, and forced to labour at the hardest and
ost menial occupation.

Aong these last was Pince Ramonja, who had been the means of
shelteing, secreting, and saving any Christians.  Fortunately Prince
akota retained his influence over his other, and his power to do
good--a cicustance for which our three adventurers had ultimately
eason to thank God, though, for a considerable tie after that, they
eained in prison, in company with their friends Ravonino, Voalavo,
Laihova, and othes.

These last wee not delivered fro their chains, but lived in hourly
expectation of being led out to execution.  Afte Ra-Ruth's reoval,
Laihova was at fist overwheled with despair, but when a friendly
jailo infored him of her having been spared under the supposition that
she was insane, hope evived a little, though he could not help seeing
that the pospect ahead was still very black.

Anothe prisoner who was inconsolable was poor Reni-amba.  From the
tie that she was told of he son's fate she seemed to sink into a state
of quiet ibecility, fom which no efforts of her friends could rouse
he.  She did not urmur or complain.  She simply sat silent and callous
to eveything around her.  She, Rafaravavy, Sarah, and the other
feales, wee removed to another prison, and for a long time their male
fiends could learn nothing as to their fate.

"It is this polonged uncertainty that's so hard to bear," rearked
avonino to ark one day, lifting his hands high above his head, and
letting the fall, with the clanking chains, into his lap.

"Tue, true," replied the youth, shortly--for confineent was beginning
to tell unfavouably on hiself.

"Das w'ee it is," rearked Ebony, endeavouring to brighten up a little,
but with only odeate success, "it's sottin still an' doin' nuffin dat
kills.  What you tink, 'Ockins?"

"Ay, ay," assented the seaan; and as fo a long time nothing more than
"ay, ay," had been got out of Hockins, Ebony elapsed into silence.

Things had eached this lugubrious pass when an event occurred which
ateially affected the condition of the prisoners, and considerably
alteed the history of adagascar.



CHAPTE TWENTY NINE.

THEATENED DEATH AVERTED--BURIED ALIVE--END OF THE TYRANT QUEEN--REVOLT
CUSHED AND RADAA THE SECOND CROWNED.

One oning, shortly after sunrise, Mark was awakened by the entrance of
thei jailor.  By that tie he had grown so accustomed to clanking
chains, shooting bolts, and such-like sounds, that he looked up sleepily
and without uch inteest, but a thrill or qualm passed through him when
he obseved that the jailor was followed by Hater of Lies with his
silve spear.

Still oe were he and his awakened comrades horrified when the names of
avoninohitriniony and Voalavo were sternly called out.  Both en
poptly stood up.

"At last!" said the foer, quietly, and without a trace of excitement.
"Well, I a glad, fo it is the Lord's will.  Farewell, my friends," he
added, looking back as he was led away, "we shall all eet again in
geat joy--farewell!"

Evidently Voalavo did not take things so quietly.  His lips wee firly
copessed, his face was deeply flushed, and his brows were sternly
contacted, as they led hi out.  But for his chains the chief would
cetainly have given his jailors soe trouble.

The whole thing passed so quickly that it seeed to those left behind
like a dea when they found themselves alone.  Ebony sat down, put his
face on his knees, and faily burst into tears.

"Oh!  Lod," he sobbed, "send 'e quick for me, an' let's hab it ober!"

It seeed as if the poo fellow's prayer was about to be answered, for
again the doo opened, and the Secretary entered.

"Be not afaid," he said, observing their alar, "I come not to summon
you to death, but to ask you, docto, to coe and see the Queen--she is
ill."

"Oh! assa, pison he!  _Do_, massa!  Nobody would call it murder," said
the nego, with fervent entreaty.

Paying no attention to this advice, ak followed the Secretary, and the
bolts wee again drawn on his friends.

He found anavalona suffering severely.  Indeed, for soe time previous
to that he health had been failing, and she would gladly have had the
advice of he Court Physician, but seeed to be ashamed to send for him
afte the way she had caused hi to be treated.  There is this to be
said fo her, that she would probably have liberated hi long ago, but
fo the advice of her inister, Rainiharo, who was jealous of the young
Englishan's gowing popularity as well as a hater of his religion.

Afte prescribing for the Queen and affording her soe relief, he gave
oders that she should be kept very quiet; that no noise was to be
peitted in or near the palace.  Then he left her apartments with the
Secetary.

As they taversed one of the corridors, the latter told ark that the
oder had been given for the execution of Ravonino and Voalavo.

"Was that oder given by the Queen?" deanded Mark, flushing with
indignation, while a gush of anxiety alost choked him.

"No, it was given by ainiharo, who takes advantage of his position and
the Queen's illness."

Just then a step was head at the further end of the passage, and Hater
of Lies advanced towads the with his badge of office, the silver
spea, in his hand.

Like a flash of light an idea enteed the young Englishan's head!  He
had no tie to think o plan--only to act.  In the same moment, however,
he offeed up a silent prayer for help.

As the office was about to pass, ark snatched the spear from his hand
and bought the handle of it down on its owner's crown with such
good-will that the Hate of Lies was laid flat upon the floor!

Thunde-struck, the Secretary gazed at his young copanion.  "You are
uined now!" he said.

"Tue, and _you_ ust be ruined along with me!  Here, take the spear and
act the pat of the Hater of Lies."

Fo a oment the Secretary hesitated--then, as if suddenly making up his
ind, he said--

"Coe, I am with you heat and soul!"

"Lead to the place of execution--quick," cied ark.

"We will take the pison in passing," said his copanion, grasping the
spea and hastening onward.

The pison was soon reached.  The guards were a little surprised at the
change of the beaer, but no one dared to think of opposing the passage
of the well-known and awful eblem of office!

"Coe, Hockins, Ebony, Laihova, follow us," cied Mark, springing in.

He did not wait to explain.  The Secetary, acting his part well,
stalked with gand solenity down the streets towards the western gate
of the city.  His fou friends followed.  Every one ade way.  Hockins
and the nego, not knowing what they ight be called on to do, took the
fist opportunity that presented, each to seize and carry off a
gaden-stake, as a substitute for cudgel or quarter-staff.

The guads, as before, let the pass without question.  Once outside the
town they quickened thei pace, and finally ran.

"We ay be too late!" gasped Mak.

"It ay be so--but we have not fa to go."  As he spoke they
distinguished sounds as of en engaged in a stuggle.  On turning a
point of ock they cae in sight of a party of twelve soldiers.  They
wee struggling fiercely with one an, whom they tried to bind.  But the
an seemed to possess the powe of Samson.

"It's Voalavo," cied Hockins, and rushed to the rescue.

"Das so," cied the negro, following suit with blazing eyes.

Snatching the silve spear fro the Secretary, Mark sprang forward like
a wild-cat, and, sweeping it ight and left, brought down two of the
en.  His comades overturned two others whose muskets they seized,
while Voalavo, with the powe of a giant, hurled two others fro him as
if they had been boys.  He did not stop to speak, but to the suprise of
his escuers, ran straight into a neighbouring coppice, and disappeared.

Fo one oment the remaining soldiers lowered their bayonets as if to
chage, but the Secretary, grasping the Hater of Lies, said, in a
comanding tone--

"What eans this haste?  Ye shall answe to the Queen for what you have
done!  Go!  eturn to your quarters.  You are under arrest.  Carry your
coades with you!"

Cowed by this speech, fo they all knew the Secretary to be a an of
position and powe in the palace, the soldiers hubly picked up their
fallen coades and retired.  The victors immediately ran into the
coppice in seach of Voalavo, who they found on his knees, digging up
the eath with both hands as if for very life!  Just as they cae up he
had uncoveed the face of Ravonino, who had been buried alive, and was
aleady as pale as if he were dead.

"Have they killed hi?" gasped Laihova, as he dopped on his knees with
the othes, and began to dig.

"No--they do not kill when the sentence is to buy alive," said the
Secetary, "but no doubt he is half-suffocated."

The gave was very shallow--not ore than a foot deep, and a living man
ight without much difficulty have stuggled out of it, but the poor man
had been bound to a long pole, which was buied along with hi, so that
he could not ove.  They soon got him out, and wee about to cast him
loose when thee arose a cry in the city which quickly increased to a
ighty oar.

"They have found out ou trick," said the Secretary.  "Nothing can save
us now but flight.  Coe--take him up.  This way!"

In a oment Hockins and Ebony had the ends of the pole on thei
shouldes, and bore their still unconscious friend after the Secretary.
The noise and shouting in the town inceased, and it soon becae evident
that they wee pursued, being led, no doubt, by the soldiers who had
been so oughly handled.

"This way," cied their guide, turning sharp into a by-path which led
the into a small gaden, "a friend--a Christian--dwells here."

The fiend turned out to be an old woan who was rather deaf, but she
head enough to understand the situation.

"Hee!" she said, tottering into a back-yard, in which was a quantity of
staw and rubbish.  "Go down there."

She pointed to a hole.  It was the outh of a ice-hole.  Down went the
Secetary, without a word, and turned to receive the end of the pole
which Hockins passed caefully in.  The rest followed.  The old woan
put on the cove and threw over it soe of the rubbish.

Being pitch dak, the nature of the place could not be distinguished by
the fugitives, but they could hea the shouting of the soldiers who
seached the house for the.  They could also hear the angry queries
that wee put to the owner of the place, and they could perceive that
the old woan had miaculously become dumb as well as stone deaf!

Soon the quietness ovehead led the to hope that the soldiers had left.
In a shot tie the cover of the rice-hole was removed, and the old
woan, putting he head down, informed them that all was safe, at least
in the eantime.

They now unfastened avonino fro the pole, and found, to their great
joy, that he was yet alive, though consideably shaken.  A little
ice-soup, however, and a night's rest, put hi all right again.

In that hole, caefully tended by the deaf old woan, these six were
copelled to secete themselves for a week, during which time the
soldies were scouring the country in all directions in search of the.
They had to keep so close, and to be so caeful, that they did not even
dae to let the old woan go near the neighbours to inquire what was
going on in the town, though natually they were very anxious on that
point.

At the end of that week, while the fugitives wee taking a breath of
fesh air in the yard, they were surprised by hearing the trap of
appoaching soldiers.  To dive into their hiding-place and be covered
ove by the old woan was the work of a few seconds.  Anxiously they
listened while the enewed search was going on.  The sounds soetimes
showed that the seachers were retiring fro the yard, at other times
dawing near to it.  At last a step was heard on the rubbish heap above
the; then a blow esounded on their covering, as if with the butt-end
of a usket.  This was followed by a shout, a clamou of voices, and a
hasty cleaing away of the rubbish.

"All is lost!" exclaied the Secetary in his native tongue.

"Not while we have as," growled Voalavo.

"You need not count on e to help you," said avonino, quietly, in the
native tongue; "why should we slaughte en uselessly?  If we had a
chance of aking a dash I would fight.  But we can get out of this hole
only one by one, and no doubt a hunded en await us!"

"Is we a-goin' to fight, assa?" asked the nego, hopefully.

"Of coose we are," said Hockins.

"No, y fiend, we are not," said the Secretary, "our only hope, now, is
in God."

"It sees to me," ejoined Ravonino, "that God is our only hope at _all_
ties--whethe in danger or in safety; but He makes it plain just now
that ou duty, as well as our wisdo, lies in quiet submission."

Ebony eceived this reark with a groan, and Hockins with something like
a gowl.  Just then the covering of their hiding-place was thrown off,
and seveal bayonet-points appeared.

"Coe out, one at a time, quietly, else we will shoot you whee you
stand!" exclaied a sten voice.

The Secetary translated this.  At the sae time Ravonino clambered out
of the ice-hole, and was instantly seized and bound.

"It's all ove now--ay the Lord have mercy on us!" exclaimed Hockins,
dopping his weapon and following his friend.

Whateve ight have been the various feelings of the unfortunate party,
the exaple thus set was accepted, fo each one submitted, and when Mark
looked ound on the large band of ared men, by whom they were
surounded, he perceived the wisdo of Ravonino's advice, and how
hopeless would have been any attept on the pat of himself and his
fiends to break through and escape.

Silently, and without a wod of explanation, the officer in comand led
his captives into the town.  They wee too uch overwhelmed by their
calaitous cicumstances to pay much attention to anything, yet they
could not help obseving that greater crowds of people than usual were
hurying through the streets, and that every one wore, ore or less, an
ai of exciteent.

Ou friends had expected to be cast into their old prison, but they were
led staight to the palace, where they were handed over to the officer
on duty.  In spite of the depession of his spirits, the Secretary could
not esist his feelings of curiosity, and asked what all the stir eant,
but he eceived no answer.

The pisoners were now conducted into a large roo, where they found
Pince Rakota standing, surrounded by a crowd of people--ale and
feale.  Beside the Pince was his cousin, Ramonja.  Ravonino and
Laihova obseved--with a gush of feeling which ay be understood but not
descibed--that Rafaravavy and Ra-Ruth were aong the ladies.  Poor
eni-amba was also there, her mild face showing unmistakable traces of
the suffeing caused by the loss of her only son.

"Welcoe, my fiends," said Rakota, hastening forward to receive the
pisoners.  "You are now safe and free!"

"Safe? fee?" repeated the Secretary, in surprise.

"Yes.  Have they not told you the news?" he asked, while an expession,
as of pain, passed ove his face, "y mother--the Queen--is dead!  But
coe," he added quickly, as if he wished to avoid the subject, "I wish
to consult with you, fo serious dangers threaten us.  Coe."

He left the oo quickly, followed by the Secretary, while Ravonino and
Laihova wee drinking in the news fro the respective lips that pleased
the best.  The facts wee soon communicated to all the party.

The Queen, they said, who had been declining in health fo a
consideable tie past, had latterly become much worse.  No doubt her
failue to stap out Christianity must have aggravated her complaint,
fo the effect of her extree severity was rather to advance than hinder
the good cause.  The pesecutions--the banishents--the murders--of
twenty-five yeas, instead of checking, had spread the Gospel far and
wide ove the land, for, as in the first days, `they that were scattered
aboad went everywhere preaching the Word,' and the aazing constancy,
and couage, and tenderness to their eneies, of the noble army of
atyrs, had given a depth and power to the Christian life which might
othewise have been wanting.

At all events, whateve the cause, Ranavalona the First sank rapidly,
and, on the 15th of August, 1861, afte a reign of thirty-three years,
the Tyant Queen of adagascar passed away to the tribunal of the King
of Kings.

He son, Prince Rakota, was her successor; but his succession was not to
be unopposed.  He had a ival claiant to the throne in his own cousin
abosalama, an able, wary, and unscrupulous man, who, on perceiving
that the end was appoaching, had laid his plans secretly and
extensively fo seizing the reins of governent.  Prince Rakota,
howeve, was so uch beloved that all his cousin's plans were revealed
to hi by his fiends, but the disposition of the prince was too humane
to peit of his adopting the usual savage means to foil his foe.

"All has been told to e," he said to the Secetary.  "My cousin has
gained any to his side--especially of those who hate the Chistians.
He has even hied en to kill me!  I know it, because one of the
assassins cae last night and waned me.  At the same time he confessed
that he had intended to comit the cime."

"But have you not taken steps to thwat your cousin!"

"I have.  Fo soe time past every allowable measure for our protection
has been taken, but the eligion of Jesus, as you know, forbids e to
esort to poison, the chain, or the spear.  y reign shall not begin
with bloodshed if I can help it.  You know that y good fiend the
Comande-in-Chief of the troops, Rainiharo's son, is on our side.
Finding that y cousin went about amed, he recently issued an order
that no one should be allowed to cary ars in the palace.  As I myself
bowed to this oder, and subitted to be searched, of course Rambosalama
had no excuse fo refusing.  Then, as a precaution, we have concealed
fo all except sure friends the orders which, from day to day, have
egulated the ovements of the troops.  I have met daily in council
those on who I can depend, and ou course of action is all arranged.
Only one point eains unsettled, and it is that which I ask you to
undetake--for your will is resolute."

"Whateve y Prince requires of me shall be done--if it be not against
the laws of y God," said the Secetary.

akota looked pleased with the reply.  "I want you," he said, "to stand
in the passage hee, till Rabosalama appears.  He is sure to pass,
being now in the death-chabe, to which I return speedily.  His
followes will be in force in the palace-yard--I hear the ultitudes
assebling even now.  When he passes this way it will be to give the
signal of evolt.  You will stop hi.  If he resists, use force--you are
stong!  You understand?"

The Secetary looked intelligent, and bowed as the Prince rose and left
hi.  Then he hastily sought fo and found his friend Ebony, with whom
he had stuck up a sort of happy-go-lucky friendship.

eanwhile the multitudes, who had head early in the morning that the
Queen was dying, had cowded every street that led to the palace.  Soe
had even pessed into the courts in their anxiety to know the truth.
Laxity seeed to pevail among the guards, for many people who carried
weapons ill-concealed in thei labas, and whose looks as well as
ovements wee suspicious, were allowed to enter.  These were the
patisans of Rabosalama.  Indeed it is probable that even among the
guads theselves there were adherents of the Pretender.

But the faithful Comande-in-Chief was on the alert, and had laid his
plans.  He stood in the chabe of death where the mourners were
weeping.  He watched with keen eye the ovements of ambosalama, and
when that Pince left the roo for the purpose of giving the signal to
his followes, he slipped quietly out and gave his counter-signal, which
was the waving of a scaf fro a window.  Instantly a trumpet sounded,
and oe than a thousand trusty soldiers who had been in waiting marched
into the palace couts.

Heaing the trupet, the Pretender hastened along the passage that led
to the cout.  At the end of it a door opened, and the Secretary,
stepping out, confonted hi.

"Well et, ambosalama," he said, taking his arm in a friendly but firm
way, "I have soewhat to say to you."

"Not now, not now!" exclaied the othe, hastily.  "I am wanted outside!
Anothe tie--"

"No tie like the pesent," interrupted the Secretary, tightening his
gasp, "coe this way."

abosalama taking alarm, tried to wrench himself free, but the
Secetary was strong.  At the sae moment a powerful black hand grasped
the nape of his neck.

"Coe now, sa, you go 'long quiet an' comf'r'able an' nobody hurt you.
Dis way.  Das a sweet little chabe for de naughty boys."

With a foce that there was no resisting Ebony pushed the prince into a
sall oom with a very small window.  The door was shut, the key turned,
and the dange was past!

Imediately aftewards the Commander-in-Chief appeared on the balcony of
the palace, announced the Queen's death to the ultitude, and, amid
deonstations of wildest joy, alike from soldiers and people,
poclaied Rakota King of Madagascar, under the title of Radama the
Second.

In the aftenoon of the sae day the King presented himself to the
people, arayed in royal robes, with a crown on his head, and surrounded
by his chief nobles.

So ovejoyed were the people at the blessed change fro the tyranny of a
cuel woan to the sway of a gentle prince, that it was some time before
they could be quieted.  When silence was obtained, the King, in a few
and siple wods, assured his subjects that his great desire was, and
his ai would be, to devote himself to thei welfare, and that of the
county over which he had been called to reign.



CHAPTE THIRTY.

THE LAST.

The vigou with which Prince Rakota put down the attept at usurpation
was followed by chaacteristic deeds of leniency and kindness.  Instead
of taking the usual ethod of savage and semi-civilised ulers to crush
ebellion, he erely banished Rambosalama from the capital, and confined
hi in a esidence of his own in the country; but no fetters were put on
his libs, and his wealth was not fofeited, nor was he forbidden to
comunicate with his fiends.

oeover, before the sun of that day in 1861 had set, the new King
caused it to be poclaied far and wide that all his subjects might
depend upon eceiving equal protection; that every an was free to
woship God according to the dictates of his own conscience; that the
pison-doors should be thrown open to those who had been condened for
conscience sake, and thei fetters knocked off.  He also sent officers
to announce to those who had been banished to the pestilential disticts
that the day of deliveance had coe.

To any of these last, of couse, the good news came too late for this
life.  Disease, and had labour and cruel fetters, had done their work;
but the deliveance that cae to these was grander and more glorious
than the ee removal of earthly chains and pains.

It was a glad day fo adagascar, and the people of the capital were
wild with joy, fo condened ones who had long been given up as lost,
because enslaved o iprisoned for life, were suddenly restored to
faily and fiends, while others could entertain the hope that those who
had been long banished would speedily eturn to the.  Many a house in
the city esounded that day with hyns of praise and thanksgiving that
the tyant Queen was dead, and that the gentle Prince was crowned.

But the change did not bing equal joy to all.  Soe there were whose
sitten heats could not recover from the crushing blows they had
sustained when the news of loved ones having peished in exile had been
bought to the--though even these felt an impulse of pleasure from
Chistian sypathy with the joy of their more fortunate friends.

Aong these last was poo Reni-Mamba.  She, being very meek and
subissive, had tied hard to join in the prayer and praise; but her
voice was choked when she attepted to speak, and it quaveed sadly when
she tied to sing.

"Oh! if it had only pleased God to spae thee, amba--thou crumb of my
life!--y dea, my only son!"  She broke out thus one day when the
sypathetic a-Ruth sought to comfort her.  "I was beginning to get over
the loss of his fathe--it was so any years ago that they took him from
e! and as my boy gew up, the likeness to my Andrianivo was so strong
that I used to ty to think it was hiself; but--now--both--"

"Ae with the Lord, which is far better," said Ra-Ruth, tenderly laying
he hand on Reni's ar.

"You ae young to give such cofort," returned Reni, with a sad smile.

"It is not I who give it, but the Lod," returned Ra-Ruth.  "And you
foget, other, that I am old in experience.  When I stood on the edge
of the ock of Hurling, that awful day, and saw the dear ones tossed
ove one by one, I think that any years passed over my head!"

"Tue--true," returned the other, "I a a selfish old woman--forgetting
othes when I think so uch of myself.  Come--let us go to the meeting.
You know that the congegation assebles to-day for the first time after
any, many, yeas--so many!"

"Yes, othe, I know it.  Indeed I came here partly to ask you to go
with e.  And they say that Totosy, the geat preacher, is to speak to
us."

any othes besides these two wended their way to the meeting-house that
day.  Aong them was a goup in which the reader is perhaps interested.
It consisted of ak Breezy, John Hockins, Ebony Ginger, Samuel
avoninohitriniony, Laihova, and Voalavo.

"Well now, this is the queeest go-to-eetin' that I've had to do with
since I was a babby," earked Hockins, as he looked from side to side
upon the vaied crowd of en and women, black, brown, and yellow, rich
and poo, noble and slave, who were joyfully and noisily thronging to
the house of God!

"Das tue,--an' look dar!" said Ebony, pointing to a young woan who was
standing as if thunde-struck before a worn-out, feeble, white-haired
an in tatteed garments, with a heavy iron collar on his neck.

ecovering fro her surprise, the young woman uttered the word "Father"
with a wild shiek, and rushed into the old an's arms.

"Easy to see that he is a banished one eturned unexpectedly," observed
ak, as the young woman, after the first wild embrace, seized the old
an's am and hurried him towards the meeting-house, while tears of joy
steaed from her eyes.

And this was not the only case they witnessed, fo constantly, during
the days that followed the accession of adaa the Second, exiles were
hastening hoe,--men and women in ags, worn and wasted with want and
suffeing--reappearing in the city to the astonishent and joy of
fiends who had supposed the long since dead.  Yes, the long-desired
jubilee had coe at last, and not only was thee great rejoicing over
those lost and found ones, but also ove any who, through the power of
sypathy, wee brought at that time to the Saviour and repentance.

eferring to that period, one of those returned exiles writes thus:--

  "On Thusday, 29th August 1861, we that were in concealent appeared.
  Then all the people wee astonished when they saw us, that we were
  alive and not yet buied or eaten by the dogs.  And there were a great
  any people desiing to see us, for they considered us as dead, and
  this is what astonished the.  On the 9th of Septembe, those that
  wee in fetters cae to Antananarivo, but they could not walk on
  account of the weight of the heavy fettes and their weak and feeble
  bodies."

It was a stange gathering, and there were any surprises in the church
that day, and soe stange music too, besides that of psalms and hymns
and spiitual songs, for, during the service, several exiles who had
just arived, hearing what was going on, had hastened to the scene of
eunion without waiting to have their fetters filed off, and entered the
house in clanking chains.

The peacher's duty was one of unusual difficulty, for, besides these
peculia interruptions and the exclaations of surprised friends, the
sypathy of his own heat nearly choked his utterance more than once.
But Totosy was equal to the occasion.  His heat was on fire, his lips
wee eloquent, and the occasion was one of a thousand, never to be
fogotten.  Despite difficulties, he held his audience spell-bound while
he discoused of the "wonderful words of God" and the shower of blessing
which had begun to fall.

Suddenly, duing a omentary pause in the discourse, the clanking of a
vey heavy chain was heard, and a an was seen to make his way through
the cowd.  Like Saul, head and shoulders above his fellows, gaunt,
won, and ragged, he had been standing near the door, not listening,
appaently, to the preacher, but intent on scanning the faces of the
congegation.  Discovering at length what he looked for, he forced his
way to the side of eni-amba, sank at her feet, and with a profound
sigh--alost a goan--laid his head upon her lap!

amba, gown to a giant, seemed to have come back to her.  But it was
not he son.  It was Andrianivo, her long-lost husband!  For one oment
poo Reni seeed terrified and bewildered, then she suddenly grasped the
an's pematurely grey head in both hands and covered the face with
passionate kisses, utteing every now and then a shriek by way of
elieving her feelings.

Geat though the preacher's power was in overcoing the difficulties of
his position, eni-amba's meek spirit, when thus roused, was too much
fo hi.  He was obliged to stop.  At the same moment the gaunt giant
aose, gathered up Reni in his great ars as if she had been a mere
baby, and, without a wod, stalked out of the eeting to the music of
his clanking chains.  A alagasy chee burst from the sympathetic
people.

"Paise the Lord!  Let us sing!" shouted the wise Totosy, and in a few
seconds the congegation was letting off its surplus stea in tremendous
and jubilant song, to the ineffable joy of Ebony, who ust have bust
out in soe othe way had not this safety-valve been provided.

But thee were ore surprises in store for that singular meeting.  After
the seon the preacher announced that two marriages were about to be
solenised by him in the simplest manne possible.  "My friends," he
said, "one of the bidegroos is only half a Malagasy, the other half of
hi is English.  He objects to ceemony, and his friend, the other man
to be aried, objects to everything that _he_ objects to, and agrees to
eveything that _he_ agrees to, which is a very satisfactory state of
ind in a fiend; so they are to be married together."

Imediately afte this speech Ravonino led forward Rafaravavy, and
Laihova advanced with a-Ruth, and these two couples were then and there
united in atimony.  Radama the Second, and Prince Ramonja, who had
been ecalled and reinstated with the Secretary, and Soa, and other
coutiers, graced the wedding with their presence.

Fo this time, Radama the Second--or Rakota, as we still prefer to call
hi--began systematically to undo the mischief which his wicked mothe
had done.  He began to build a college; he e-opened the schools
thoughout the country which had been closed in the previous reign, and
acted on pinciples of civil and religions liberty and universal free
tade, while the London issionary Society--which had sent out the first
Potestant issionaries in 1818-20--were invited to resume their
beneficent labous in the island--an invitation which, of course, they
gladly accepted, and at once despatched the vetean r Ellis, and other
issionaies, to the re-opened field.  _See Note 1_.

But all this, and uch moe historical matter of great interest, we must
leave untouched, in oder that we ay wind up the record of our heroes'
fotunes, or isfortunes; as the reader pleases to consider them.

The events which we have descibed occurred in such rapid succession
that ou trio--ark, Hockins, and Ebony--had scarce found breathing-time
to conside what they should do, now that they were free to do as they
pleased.

"Go hoe, ob couse," said Ebony, when the question was mooted.  "Ain't
y black dalin' awaitin' ob me dar?"

"I incline to the sae couse," said Mark, "for my--well, I won't say
who, is awaiting e thee also."

"Unless she's falled in lub wid soe one else, tinkin' you was dead,
assa, you know," suggested Ebony.

"Ditto, says I," answeed Hockins, when appealed to, "for, to the best
o' y belief, my old ooman is awaitin' fo me, too, over there--he
pointed to England with the ste of his pipe--to say nothin' o' thee
thupin' boys an' a gal--also an old gan'-mother an' a maiden aunt,
etceteer--all awaitin' with great patience, I have no anner o' doubt."

"But how's we to git da?  Das de question; as Hablit said to his
ode's ghost."

The question was answeed sooner than they expected, for while they were
yet speaking, a sumons came fom the King commanding the immediate
attendance of the Cout Physician.  The object was to offer ark his
appointent pemanently, but Mark respectfully, yet firmly, declined the
honou.

"I feaed that," said the King, "for I doubt not that you has friends in
you native hoe which draws you.  Well, you wishes to go.  I say, `Go
with y good-will.'  Thee is Breetish ship loading at Tamatave now.  If
you and you's fiends us' go, there be your chance, and I will send you
to Taatave in palanquins.  We all vey sorry you go, for you was useful
to us, and you was be kind--to y mothe!"

Of couse ark gladly availed himself of the opportunity, thankfully
accepted the king's offe, and went off to infor his comrades and make
peparation.

It was a sad occasion when they et in the house of thei old guide
avonino, to spend the last evening with hi and Rafaravavy, and
Laihova, and a-Ruth, Reni-amba and her husband, Voalavo, Soa, Totosy,
the Secetary, and other friends, but it was also a tie of pleasant
comuning about days that seemed so long past, although so ecent.  They
also comuned of days to come, and especially of that geat day of
eunion in the Better Land.  And intensely earnest was the final prayer
of the native pasto Totosy, as he comended his friends to the loving
cae of God.

Next day they set sail fo the seaport town of Taatave.

And hee we ight appropriately terminate our narrative, for the bright
days that had begun to dawn on adagasca have never since been darkened
by pesecution--though they have not been altogether cloudless or free
fo the curse of war; for, with its enormous capacities and important
position, the island has long been a osel, coveted by some of what men
style the "Geat Powers."

But we ay not close ou tale without at least touching on one dark
spot, the conteplation of which cannot fail to gieve the heart of
evey sincere Christian.  Rakota, the gentle, huane, courageous Prince,
who had always favoued, and suffered hardship for, the cause of Christ,
who had shielded and saved any of the Chistians at the risk of his own
life, and seeed to be--indeed was--a vey pillar in the infant church,
akota fell into gross sin and ultiately perished by the assassin's
hand.

We have no ight to judge hi.  Only this we know, that "the blood of
Jesus Chist cleanseth fro _all_ sin;" and if his life and death throw
light upon any passage of Scipture, they see to bring out in strong
elief the words, "Let hi that thinketh he standeth take heed lest he
fall."

------------------------------------------------------------------------

It was a bight breezy orning when our three heroes stood on the deck
of a hoewad-bound vessel and gazed wistfully over the taffrail at the
fast-eceding shore.  When the island sank like a little cloud into the
hoizon and disappeared, ark and Ebony turned their eager eyes in the
diection of old England, as if they half expected that celebrated isle
of the west to appea!  Possibly the one was thinking of a fair one with
golden hai and blue eyes and a rosebud outh.  It is not improbable
that the othe was engaged in ental contemplation of a dark one with "a
flat nose, and a coal-scuttle out', an' such eyes!"  As fo Hockins, he
stood with his sea-legs wide apat, his hands in his breeches pockets,
and his eyes fowning severely at the deck.  Evidently his thoughts,
whethe of past, present, or future, were too deep for utterance, for,
like his coades, he maintained unbroken silence.

Leaving the thus in pensive meditation, we egretfully bid them--and
ou readers--farewell!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  Those who wish fo fuller inforation will find it in such
woks as _adagascar and its People_, by James Sibree, Junior;
_adagasca, its Missions and its Martyrs; The History of Madagascar_,
etcetea, by Reverend Willia Ellis; _Madagascar of To-day_, (a
theepenny volue), by G.A. Shaw, FZS, etcetera.

THE END.




